I waited around on Monday for the Greek woman to come around with the
papers proving she owned the place and she didn't. Which didn't prove
anything.

I ended up talking to the guy who was the sentence administration officer
who said that there was no record that the owner was in gaol and none that
he ever had been in gaol in NSW. So where was he?

It amazes me that even though it's useless, people still enrol to vote and
that their addresses are thence available on the electoral rolls.

The Australian Electoral Commission is located at Roden Cutler house,
which is a skyscraper on Campbell St in the city. I've never figured out
why, when you get in the elevator, and press the button for the first
floor, you get out at least ten stories above the street and can look down
on the surrounding rooftops. What the hell is in the intervening floors?

I get their microfiche and try all three possible wrong ways to align the
specfic sheet before getting plaintext on the 'fiche reader on the fourth
attempt. I don't use 'fiche very often. I have his electoral address in a
jiffy.

Next day it's cold but at least it isn't raining. I drive around there,
park the vehicle a little bit away from it. As opposed to yet another
rumour from the neighbours, it's not a nursing home. It's a weatherboard
house, sort of a bit degenerating. I walked onto the front porch.

A tall, pale, bespectacled woman with short brown hair, in at least her
70's, answered the door in her dressing gown and slippers.

"Hi. I'm looking for a Mr Melbourne. Is this his address?"

"What do you want with it?

"There's this place he apparently owns in Leichhardt and someone came
 around to drill the locks out and I told her to go away."

"You're the chap who's there, right?"

"Yes, I'm squatting it."

"Ah yes. Mr Melbourne is a very sick old man and he needs to sell the
 place to pay to get himself fixed up. The woman who came around there's
 gonna by the place."

"Right."

"I think it's disgusting that people like you come along and destroy our
 lives." she glares at me through the flyscreen and the aluminium grill
 mesh.

"Wha...?"

"You threw out a load of important stuff, I know the place was a bloody
 mess, but you had no right to go and do that."

 A bloody mess. Yes, it was, rather.

 Furniture already vandalised or rotten from rainwater leaking onto it,
 papers rat-eaten and already in garbage bags. But who am I to decide what
 people think is important to them. 

"I'm sorry..."

"You're not sorry, you wouldn't do it if you were sorry!" she yells.

I'm shocked. She has no idea how hard it was to locate the owner, and
evidently has no idea how totally fucked up everything was in that place.
Should I send the photographs of the devastation? It'd break her heart to
know that of the stuff which was there, hardly anything that survived the
vandals, the rats, the rain, survived the fungus. And then the council
came through, photographed it, and declared it all a health hazard and a
fire risk, and issued notices to get rid of the stuff, which were ignored
until I got there. But she's not going to offer me a chance to tell her.

"Well, I'll leave." 

"You're NOT SORRY!" she keeps saying.

I'm at that stage where I think this conversation isn't possibly going to
get any better. No point mentioning the remaining furniture, the sewing
machine and the refrigerator fixed up, the repairs to the building, or a
million other things. This is her moment of righteous anger.
 
"You're not going to tell me your name are you?" She says as I walk down
her driveway and out of their lives. "No..." she murmers as if she's
triumphantly discovered some diagnostic defect in my character.

Why bother. I'm nobody to her, other than a place she can direct her anger
at the situation. Propaganda experts used to say that if you need to focus
hate on something, it needs to have a name. It's better if I'm just an
anonymous, nasty, heartless, thoroughly bad and amoral criminal
trespasser. She, or whoever can hate me, and other squatters they've never
met, with a cleaner conscience, and have a purer, more justified outrage
than they'd have if they knew about any skerrick of redeeming features of
my life.

I drive away, somewhat shaken. For all I know she's had a heart attack, or
she's on the phone to someone else to console her.

So now I'm in salvage mode, which is a lot of freaking work. I head around
tomorrow and snarf the locks, the power points, plumbing, whatever else I
put in. I'll leave the place secured, of course. The incumbent new owner,
with her attendant navigation problem, does not strike me as the sort of
person who deserves any freebies.







