abort.txt 7 Dec, finished 8 Dec 2001
The filename's unfortunate, but it was what came at the time.

I got an email from joss today. She's miscarrying.

I felt a surge of emotions and I'm trying to sort them out.

1) she's preggers but told me she doesn't want kids. Accidental?
2) she's preggers to someone else?  I dont care. Her life.
3) she's miscarrying, might be pretty sick. I am concerned about her.
4) it drives home to me just how effectively I am cut out of awareness of
   what's going on in her life that she doesn't tell me any of this until she's
   having a miscarriage. This hurts me.
5) I hope she isn't going through it alone.



The problem with wonder's how big it can get
The odds are agin you no matter your bet.
Mere speculation's a dangerous tool
demarking its user as desperate or fool.

Firmly I grasp it if nil else avails;
surprised like a child when I find that it fails
to fill in the holes in the things that I know
but randomly fills me with whimsy or woe.

A beautiful friend chose to free herself of me,
I cannot know if she did or not love me,
not sure it matters, she said that she did -
it felt like, it felt, like it felt like it.

She gently repelled me, perhaps with the ease
borne of long practice; the beautiful tease,
and carefully edited me from her story
yet I never felt it at all perfunctory.

Right at the outset, she warned, decently,
we would be close, then apart. QED.
Since, I've felt pangs for her smell, and her kiss,
it's mostly her thoughts, feelings, insights, I miss.

She said she'd hooked up with a long-lost old flame,
I haven't a problem with (Aaron's his name?).
Nor that she shared that with him she did me,
I've felt much about this but not jealousy.

She wrote. She was, then was not, with a child.
Read it, was happy, sad, then faintly riled.
I seem to recall in her disinclination
to add to the great human plague population.

A product of natal biology's stealth?
I'm serendipitous offspring myself.
None of us choose to start off as a tot,
bear them no malice, deliberate or not.

Perhaps now she wants one, well that's OK too;
Much of her baggage might have been worked through. 
I hope _she_'s equipped now, with all of the means
to make this decision, instead of her genes.

She knows as I, of a system we've need
so crazies like us aren't encouraged to breed, 
but whatever caused her to make this revision, 
I hope there's support for her and her decision.

Then there's this loss, about which I can't know,
lacking inside me where something did grow.
What might have been and what now will not be,
A foetus like that once grew up to be me.

Sometimes she nails her cards to her chest,
what she thinks, feels, can't often be guessed.
She thinks all suffering comes from desire;
might she then self-direct blistering ire, 
think she deserves this, the pain, to atone?
Hope she's not having to do this alone.

Hasn't enough of her blood yet been spilt,
soul etched by misplaced self-hatred and guilt?
Though she's resilient, deceptively tough;
anything shatters if hit hard enough,
including the bond between she and her beau,
enough has been lost without having that go.

Once I was burdened with very few feelings;
I carry many now, after our dealings.
'haps it is they that are carrying me.
Empathy, itch without scratch. Empathy.

Pop in to visit; what good would I be? 
Me and my words are a limp therapy.
Speculate? Spectate? The options appal.
Dumbly I sit, doing nothing at all.

All I could tell her is hope she's ok
All I could tell her is hope she's ok.
All I could tell her is -  nothing at all.
All I could tell her - is nothing at all.

Keyboard's a word you'll not find in the pages
penned by old poets and long-buried sages;
Tears will not ruin my monitor, yet, 
I seep onto qwerty, my keystrokes are wet.

The space of what could be is pointless to quiz,
it might have been different, and yet what is, is.
Any scenario brings with its fate
more pointless crap 'bout which to speculate.

If it were otherwise, how would that be? 
What of a Joss made up differently?
Is this assumption the point where I err:
I'd like _whatever_ she presently were?

Probably I'm subtly odd in the head,
wish neither her, child nor lover be dead,
something a standard jiltee might propose.
Enough pain already, is what I suppose.

Perhaps it is news of her life which, if bade me 
would give me some peace which seems now to evade me,
but I, I recall, as we slowly were riven,
was asked not to ask so I get what I'm given.

To live in the real, I should make a vow.
She's lost, to me here as I am in the now, 
and probably too in whate'er states await,
rudderless, drifting, on oceans of fate.

Can't quite let go yet, I still think her dear,
she tinkers with forces I know not and fear. 
I'm in a brain she's unknowingly altered 
and can't even know if my thinking has faltered.

Maybe she's fine and does not give a whit.
Hope so, though maybe she'd never admit.
This does not keep me awake in the night.
I'll nurse my ignorance, as is my right.

Whate'er she wants for her own bill of fare, 
if I can't give it she'll get it elsewhere,
if I was forced to maintain a regret,
space is her want, so it's space she must get.

Quietly I brood while events will unfold,
knowing not whether I'll ever be told,
meanwhile I'll 'facture angst-laden excrescence  
(like this, or) the guff from my mid-adolescence.

Mellowed I've not though I note, as I age
things appear bigger upon a small stage,
My feelings, thoughts are but motes, puffed away,
lost in the dust of the far grander play.

Possible futures I'll not entertain, 
thinking about 'em just causes me pain,
wether or not she or I are therein 
time has since forced us to else-when begin.


<predator>
 8 Dec 2001
