From root@localhost.localdomain Sun Mar 18 10:17:25 2001
Date: Sun, 18 Mar 2001 10:15:53 +1100 (EST)
From: root <root@localhost.localdomain>
To: root <root@localhost.localdomain>
Subject: rants'r'us

> Predator,
> Firstly allow me to clarify my position. The excessive qty. of ads. found
> on most if not all forms of media (Have you seen the new ones on taxi
> hub-caps) annoy me.

OK.

> But I also understand that my favorite dirtbike mag
> can not be sold at the very reasonable price of $6.95 without this
> advertising content.

It can probably be sold at less than this. Long before the evolution of
dirt bikes, (technology which, in itself, was quite possibly sold to us
as a good idea, by advertising, leading to mass replacement of the existing
rough terrain transport technology for individuals prior to the advent of
cheap petrochemicals and internal combustion engines - namely horses) or
the magazines which specialise in them, magazines were often small,
in-house affairs. They were subsidised by the efforts of people who were
genuinely interested in the technology itself, and wrote about
it. Distributorships were localised, costs were low since people acquired
their own small-sun presses or press infrastructure was a collective
asset.

The dirt bike mag is sold for a profit by some large corporation like
Australian Consolidated Press, which has lots of non-productive components
and large production overheads - inbuilt inefficiency, like shareholders
to whom dividends must be paid, and all the overhead associated with the
logistics of running large print operations and distributorships. 

Advertising covers some of this. Publishers threaten to put the price up
because the publisher wants to maintain profits by getting someone else
(readers) to absorb costs rather than pay out of advertising revenue.

Il Draino has, for over a decade, been ad-sponsorshit-free. It is not
there for the purpose of making a profit, and has a readership of
what... 100?

> I could bore you with more positive aspects of advertising but we have
> covered this area sufficiently.

I hope this is not intended to be a reciprocation 8-)
 
> Ahaa. using a much broader definition of the term parasite than I
> anticipated. None the less still quite a small portion of our time is
> spent deterring parasites. >

Parasites (and even parasites which parasitise other parasites) operate in
all information processing architectures (brains, biological cells,
computer networks, etc). I need not therefore confine myself to the 
conventionally diluted meaning of the word, I think. 

Time is not the only resource expended on antiparasitical activity. After
a long period, entire subsystems evolve exclusively for the purpose of
maintaining surveillance against parasite attack. To take an example
close to us, h.sapiens implements a fairly costly-to-run (in effort
vs. reward terms) immunosurveillance system to keep bacteria, fungi,
nematodes, viruses (etc) out of our bodily infrastructure. We also
reproduce sexually, which means that our cell surface is 
(immunohistochemically speaking) different from generation to generation,
so the pathogens which could attack your parents can't attack you so
easily without modifying themselves in some way.

How many machines around the world are pissing processor cycles up 
the wall running Norton Antivirus, or being firewalls?

You pay for it in other ways, too. Waste disposal, and effort diverted
from other enterprises for the purpose thereof, particularly. 

Time is often exchanged for materials. Rather than guard our boundaries by
standing there with a machete, we build walls and fences. How much do
we spend on new and replacement property fences annually?

"100 million trees a year get made into junk mail no-one reads!" -Biafra

> > Society, and organisms generally, need only lose enough time and resources
> > to parasitisation as will make it a necessity to prevent parasitisation.
> > This quantity might not be a majority of the resources available to the
> > society or organism, but simply a significant enough component of them
> > that the organism in question cannot foreseeably maintain its own
> > viability without them.

> I am having difficulty understanding your meaning in the above paragraph,
> as I read it
> <analogue mode on>
> * Puppy has fleas.
> * Puppy spends 20% of waking time scratching. 
> Even if a bit busy, all is well.

Yes, to a first approximation. I'd ask the puppy.

> * Fleas increase population causing puppy to spend 30% of waking time
> scratching. A bit busier but all is still well.
> * Fleas jump ship to kitten.
> * Puppy withers and dies due to not being able to forseeably maintain his
> own viability without the fleas.
> <analogue mode off>

No, you misunderstand here as a result of my sloppy sentence construction,
I left a dangling participle. Let me repair the sentence

> > This quantity might not be a majority of the resources available to the
> > society or organism, but simply a significant enough component of them,
> > that the organism in question cannot foreseeably maintain its own
> > viability without {these resources which the parasite takes from the
    society or organism for the purpose of making more parasites}.

The fleas are _parasites_, not symbiotes. They provide nothing useful to
the puppy, unless you consider the exercise of scratching itself for hours
to be beneficial to the puppy (again, exercise better performed looking
for food or partners). If the puppy has enough host fleas, it gets sick.
When the fleas go away, it gets well. Woe betide the cat.

Fleas are not a particularly nasty parasite. They suck out a few
microlitres of puppy blood, and use that to make more fleas, which do the
same. This is an exponential reproduction, however, and in a closed system
the fleas will rapidly populate the puppy in such numbers that they can
suck enough blood out of the puppy to actually damage it. The puppy, in an
effort to make the system not-closed, will then spend time scratching (to
eject fleas) chewing at itself (to crush fleas between teeth, and also to
provide flea component chemicals to the puppy's heavily immunosurveilled
oral mucosa), jumping in the river (wash fleas off, relieve itching) to
try and be rid of the fleas. The flea has other effects - the puppy's
immune system will start cranking out antibodies to components of the
flea's saliva. Other parasites will take advantage of the flea bites,
which gives the puppy something else to worry about - bacterial
septicaemia. 

Fleas and mammalia have come to something of an evolutionary
understanding. The flea is a well-adapted parasite, generally not known to
kill its hosts. Ticks, on the other hand, are not only highly damaging to
their hosts because of the poisonous nature of the enzymes they inject
into us, but they carry other parasites, eg. Lyme disease, which can knock
the shit out of you rapidly and permanently, providing you with cardiac
arrythmia, arthritis and meningitis. There's other more serious parasites,
like worms, flukes, etc. 


> > It's all paid for by thermodynamic reapings from earth's resources.
> > Cancers are, in every sense, parasites on the organism in which they
> > originate. They just happen to evolve locally rather than arrive from an
> > external source. The analogy with h.sapiens and Gaia is exact, in
> > epidemiological and thermodynamic terms.
 
> My reading list is clearly vastly different to yours and Diode's, I am
> familiar with all the terms in the above section but I am making no sense
> of it. I assume some prior knowledge is required.

Thermodynamics: the branch of physics concerned with flow and allocation
                of energy, heat, materials and (I think) information. Has
                interesting components to do with machine efficiency and
                the cost of information processing, such as speed vs 
                time for logical operations, efficiency of cells vs 
                transistorised switches, theoretical limits to
                size of machines which can do computation, and wether or 
                not certain problems are computable or not in certain
                timeframes. See: Turing. Landauer. Shannon. et al.

Cancer: a group of biological cells which, in humans, exhibit the
        following characteristics -
  0) artefact (accidental or induced) localised information errors in DNA 
  1) immortality. Information content is not configured to degrade with
     each generation of cells, primarily due to the expression of
     telomerase, an enzyme which repairs the ends of chromosomes.
     The usual (corrected) error rates of DNA replication errors still
     apply. 
  2) cell growth cycle regulatory genes broken, fixed permanently in
     "commence replication" mode
  3) has lost the ability to commence apoptosis (cell self-destruct) 
  4) synthesises a protein which promotes supply of vascularity: so, new
     capillaries  grow into the cancer, supplying it with nutirents 
  5) fail to synthesise a protein called an adherin, so individual cells
     from the cancer mass can spall off the main tumor and float off into
     the bloodstream/lymph system and start new tumors elsewhere. This is
     metastatis.

Procaryotes (most microorganisms) are inherently cancerous in their mode
of growth, which is limited only by resources.

Cancers exhibit exponential growth behaviour, gradually reallocating all
of the host's resources to their own replication, which is obviously 
unsustainable. Generally a critical subsystem of the host's body will be
overtaken by the tumor before all the cells are consumed, leading to
cascading systemic failures and host death. 

Gaia: hypothesis advanced by Lovelock, that earth's ecosystem is a single
organism. I tend to agree with the hypothesis since it maps well into the
ideas underpinning the nature, function and failure modes of distributed
information processing systems.

Epidemiology : the (very old) science of inquiry into the spread of
diseases. Since diseases are, fundamentally, replicating information
systems with certain preferred operational environments, this is in fact a
subset of the information-systemic laws derived ages ago (1940s) by R.A.
Fisher concerning stochastic spread of information in a given system under
various constraints.

<chop>
 
> I agree, we should aim to be a symbiote on earth but in my view the
> infinite greed of humanity is a huge barrier.

If you think mere human greed is infinite, you've never looked closely at
the universe's pitiless indifference.

I was, for a time, considering engineering a virus (CMV) so it exhibited
proteins on its surface which fooled the immune system of women into
attacking their oocytes, rendering them infertile. I came to the
conclusion that the contamination of the ecosystem with estrogen mimics
(mainly PCBs and phthalates) was doing what was required anyway, by
chopping down male sperm counts by roughly an order of magnitude every
twenty years since they were first manufactured for industrial use in the
1940s, mainly as dielectric oils in capacitors and large power
transformers. The immunocontraceptive approach would be better, since it
is able to be made specific to humans, whereas PCBs are being concentrated
in animals which tend to metabolise fat (Americans, fish, grizzly
bears) and destroying ecosystems which do not deserve it.

<chop> 

> > I've freed myself of God, fortunately, since it was voluntary.
> 
> Fortunately my parents did not shovel religion down my throat. The "if I
> am a good little serf copping a regular shafting with a smile on my face
> because god loves me, I will die prematurely and have a joyous afterlife"
> mindset annoys the crap out of me.

(laughs) Heh, yeah.

I positively enjoy flaming, unreservedly, the twits who prowl the
university campus with their six point plan to parasitise hapless
highschool escapees with jesus. I have on numerous occasions injected them
with my weltanschaunng (that is NOT a german sausage), and notice it is
quite a prolonged process because it contains components which inoculate
them against a disease with which they are already infected, as well as a
"dis-belief" system, at the same time. They need to be introduced to
significant concepts about the nature of their own existance from which 
their religion has, predictably, shielded them. The laws of propaganda are
implicitly bandwidth-conservative, per item. 

I'm not sure we need to have it shoved down our throats. Mere immersion in
a contagious environment at a vulnerable stage is also adequate.

> > I think it is, in fact, amazing, when you consider the number of people
> > deployed in it, and the rivers of money which go through it annually
> > around the world. Much of it is totally, profoundly useless. If CocaCola
> > stopped advertising for a month, it wouldn't make a difference at all to
> > the level of penetration they have around the world.
> 
> The rivers of money attract a government tax, so theoretically the wider
> and deeper the river the better for the government and therefore the
> community. This is a very simplistic view but you get my point.

This is a bunch of parasites (self-serving political parties and
unaccountable government bureaucracies) parasitising another bunch of
parasites (advertising industry and the businesses they feed on). I would
rather advertisers simply left the office permanently and did something
useful, like planted native trees on unused city blocks, or reconfigured
bus shelters so you could actually see the bus coming (take the adverts
away).
 
> You say CocaCola could stop advertising for a month. But still they spend
> millions each month, are you suggesting they are merely being charitable
> to the advertising industry.

No. They feel compelled to do it, because if they don't, their competitors
will eat their market share (and pollute the world with other product,
other advertising, and make profits ring-up in cash registers which are
not theirs). Isn't competition wonderful? They could *all* agree to not
advertise, but any one of them breaking the agreement would benefit
enormously. So they all pay for each other's opportunism. Brilliant.

> > I don't think the advertising industry's nature as an anti-productive
> > entity is even questionable. They do, in an economist's language, indeed
> > produce something, but that something is, in my opinion, not at all
> > socially beneficial.
> 
> Correct, their product is not all socially beneficial. Because it is not
> supposed to be, no producer of advertising material would attempt to say
> it is. But none the less I am still informed of products which could make
> my life easier or better (along with a large quantity of crap) and product
> manufacturers can concentrate on producing their product be it a
> worthwhile product or crap.

Highly targetted advertising I can tolerate, but it is so targetted
because some marketing organisation has me slotted into a certain
consumption "profile", and I would prefer to remain not-profiled. I think
it would be better if we wanted something, we searched the engines for
something matched to the task we wanted to perform. Suppose I want to grow
a bunch of erythrocytes in vitro. I type in "in vitro erythrocyte
culture" and I get a page about a product which does it. I do NOT want it
shoved in the mail with the last load of immunochemicals I purchased.

> > yes. So instead, advertisers enable us to waste extraordinary amounts of
> > finite life time on non-core pursuit. We pay for it, in the prices of the
> > things we buy. When you watch an advert on TV

> Tv which is FREE (apart from obvious setup and running costs) due to
> advertising.

Advertising makes it extremely profitable to the (restricted number of)  
families who own the broadcast licenses. You could run a TV station on two
minutes of ads an hour, if you didn't have the station's objective
primarily set at making a shitload of money. "The Media" by Keith
Windschuttle (Penguin, 1968) is a most illuminating read.

> , apart from the wasted time
> > of running your metabolism, you pay for the electricity which runs your TV
> > (on a per-hour basis, roughly 25 percent of it) and sleep you could have
> > had instead. How much of that newspaper you buy is advertising?

Note the distinction between free and not free. There is the cost of the
TV, the cost to run it, the cost of not doing something else when you are
watching ads. Because tv in this country is *called* free-to-air does not
mean it is actually free. 

Free is a term looked upon with considerable suspicion in thermodynamics.
Economists, for example, think air is free. Actually, it's just in such a
huge supply that "price" - an essentially meaningless term unless measured
in permanently fixed units like joules, seconds and grams (not rubber
units like dollars and percentages) - is asymptotic to zero, because it's
available in bulk instantly and everywhere. If you breathe it, however, it
is not "free" per se. There is a considerable metabolic cost in running
your tennis-court's surface area worth of lungs - making surfactant
molecules, filtering the air, warming the oxygen up to a temperature which
doesn't shock the cells (the reasons you have nasal turbinates), exporting
inhaled particles, doing gas exchange, feeding glucose to your diaphragm;
then, extracting the oxygen using trillions of erythrocyes and kilos of
haemoglobin, transporting it (gas diffusion 2mm, so need kilometres of
capillaries, and a pump to force the red cells through them) then
operating your internal respiratory chemistry, dumping CO2 outside, and
dealing with the free-radical damage caused by running your metabolism
with a very reactive oxidising agent (oxygen). Additionally, all the
oxygen we have on this planet was extracted from water by organisms which
harvested sunlight and ripped protons off water molecules, dumping O2
as a byproduct... namely plants. For _aeons_.  They had to learn how to do
it over millions of years of evolutionary time. I think a very small
amount of it is derived from radioactive decay of some minerals, but not
much. 

Sure, air's free, if you don't know what "free" means. Put an economic
rationalist on the moon with no suit and maybe they'll get a clue about
what a "free atmosphere" really costs.
 
> How much would it cost without the advertising??

This depends who is running it, and for what reasons. Channel 31 has an
annual budget way less than a half million bucks and they don't have ads.
Part of the cost is the (restricted) broadcast license they have to pay to
the government... it is interesting that TV companies advocate competition
in all industries except their own.  

Nonprofit collectives in Europe and the US have run TV stations without
ads successfully for years.

> Finally, you use the term Thermodynamically a lot in this E-mail, given
> the definition I am familiar with, I assume it is a buzz word in your
> circles. I would appreciate a clarification. >

I am hostile to buzzwords, especially management buzzwords, and tend not
to use them, where possible. They are the ingredients of exactly the sort
of deplorable word-salads produced by those who wish to give a
conversation the appearance of intellectual nutrition, whilst serving up a
dish totally depleted of any real substance.

Thermodynamics has aspects of which you may not be aware, since most of it
was developed around the statistics of gases, the behaviour of Stirling
engines and the reversibility of chemical reaction profiles. James Clerk
Maxwell formulated a lot of it. Thermodynamic laws, as opposed to those
"laws" postulated by neoclassical economists, underpin all energy,
resource and information transactions which in turn underpin society, and
their application is largely NOT a matter of mere opinion. It is couched
in mathematics, which is why neoclassical economists and the sort of
people who subscribe to the journal "Social Text" are incapable of
comprehending it. I recommend the Feynman lectures on computation (book,
paperback) and also Maxwell's Demon - Information, Computing,
Thermodynamics" (Leff & Rex; Adam Hilger Press) for good insights into the
more interesting aspects of thermodynamics. "Decline of the Age of
Oil" (Fleay, 1997) is interesting for some of its predicted consequences.

> > And what the fuck are we using yahoogroups for? 
> I liked Diode's answer but there is no point in pushing it.

cat.org.au has been running listservs with no ads for some years.

> Chookchaser

 <predator>


