File: antonia.txt
Cont: some observations
Date: 16 October 2001 : 2100 hrs.

My sister is in intensive care at St George Hospital. I met this news in a
manner some might consider strange - finally, finally, I thought to
myself, she might finally succumb to Darwin's Law and edit herself out of
the gene pool, and put us, and her, out of her misery. Die, for fuck's
sake. Get it over with.

But no. The universe won't let her go that easily.

Someone found her in some courtyard somewhere at night, they thought she
was sleeping (yep, people sleep in the courtyard at night all the time)
but on closer inspection she was fitting. She's not epileptic. Someone
whizzed her off to hospital and they figured out she had, it almost sounds
like an academic prize for medicine, hyponatremic encephalopathy, which is
where your brain doesn't work because it's depleted of sodium. It makes no
sense. You either don't get enough sodium, or you block its uptake, or you
excrete too much of it. How did this happen? A body tightly regulates its
sodium, you have to go to some lengths to deplete yourself of it. Drink
shitloads of water. Thermally overload yourself. Take certain chemicals
which mess with your sodium channels. I have a few theories but I can't
confirm any of them. People get known for botching suicide attempts, and
I'm kicking around the idea that this is another one. Maybe. Maybe not.

I walked the dog and thought about it. Fuck, what a life she's had. Or
rather, not had. What a hand she's been dealt, to extend the metaphor
properly, dealt with fingers closed, right between the fucking eyeballs.
Adopted by the same crazy, flammable, puritanical, alkie mother as adopted
me; maybe sexually abused by the old guy across the road when she was
about six but the details were kept from me (I was eight); Heir to a gene
somewhere in her biological family which predisposes people to
schizophrenia, which we think she finally developed about ten years ago,
she's about 28 now. In and out of jobs, in and out of psych wards,
guineapig for a fistfull of barely pronouncable pharma, trying to make
some sort of sense out of a society so idiotic that regular, mentally
healthy people crash out of control in it, with increasing regularity.

Oh, and she had webbed toes. Has webbed toes. I'm writing about her as if
she's dead and she isn't, we think. Well, technically she's not, she
goes beep, breathes, but other than that does nothing. We're waiting for
the pathology report to come back. The carcass, as mum used to call her,
is functioning fine. It's what is or isn't upstairs which is of concern to
me. Which is strange in itself, since in general I've not much cared for
whatever was up there. Why now? Do I care more about something when I
think I'm just about to lose it?
 
I lived with her for a couple of years during which she convinced me she'd
have been better off dead. Her life was a total mess and she was extremely
difficult to live with. I came to hate her so much that I had to leave. I
hated not only her but what she stood for, she was a scion of a society
littered with wasted resources, wasted effort, wasted life. It wasn't a
blame thing. She taught me that blame was useless, though I didn't know it
at the time. I just hated that it happened and that I had to look at the
results of it every day for a couple of years. She will never know my
gratitude for this lesson, since it is the sort of lesson for which one is
never grateful. Someone has to do it. The universe picks odd messengers
and doesn't care if the recipients occasionally shoot them.

She caused my oldies a neverending train of grief. I wonder how much of
that was an artefact of how she and mum interacted; mum was such an
arsehole to her, I remember all of it that I saw. I didn't see most of it
though, I was off being miserable somewhere else for different reasons.
How much was other factors, her biochemical errors in critical places, the
people she hung out with, a million other little experiences, which
interacted with her to help fabricate a personality, I'll never know.

Maybe somehow, it might have been different. Maybe I, and my reactions to
her, might have been the little push which sent her over the edge. But
I'll never be able to prove, or disprove, that idea to myself. Maybe a
little bit of her DNA might have been encoded correctly instead of not,
and a functioning, cohesive and excellent human personality might have
resulted. But there it is, niggling.

I remember her astounding, machine-gun laugh as an infant, it was really
great. It jars so starkly and brutally with what I saw tonight when we
went up to the intensive care ward, where her only means of communication
is beeps and a bunch of crisply rendered readouts of her heartbeat,
respiration and other shit which doesn't really tell me anything about
wether there's anyone left inside her head. Technology serves only to
quantify our ignorance to a greater number of decimal places. Damn
physic, some Shakespearian king said, but I cannot remember whom.

The bed she's in is made, of crispy, white, folded around her, sheets. She
and I never made our beds when we lived in the same flat. That was maybe
the thing which brought it home to me, we were in a place where people
don't come to live, we were in a place where some of them come to die. 

So there she is, plugged into what looks like the fucking national grid,
tubes and needles going in and coming out, drugged too stupid to remember
how to breathe so a machine figures it out and does it for her, her mouth
hanging open with the air hose going into it. She breathes with a
precision I cannot attribute to her general form, slouched in a couch with
a cigarette perched with the nonchalance of habit between her lips. She
doesn't cough either. In, out, in, out, beep, beep, beep. Running that
oxidative phosphorylation, turning perfectly good air into more greenhouse
gas like we all do.

We stand around the bed. Lots of other tragedies like this one unfold in
other beds nearby, car accidents, strokes, whatever. I am oddly aware and
dispersed around the room; tragedies littered this room before I ever knew
this room existed. There will be new ones which will be here after I
leave. I feel strangely aware of them too, I can't comprehend this one
properly so I'll try and fit someone else's problems into my head, I might
be able to solve them instead. The whole ward feels like it's caving in on
my skull. Other beeps sound, for other tragedies nearby.

I focus on her and snap out of it. 

I don't need to look at her for very long. She's there and her entire
range of behaviour is played out before me within a few seconds. Breathe
in. Breathe out. Repeat. Beep. Beep. Beep. 

I can't bring myself to touch her, it's as if I've been one more ill
influence in her life, and doing so might upset the stability of her
beeping, where the nursing staff might spot it and pinpoint me as the
cause of her presence here in the gleaming stainless adjustable cot.
Compared to the available bandwidth I have an infinity of things to say to
her, but I can't speak. You never get a moment alone in intensive care,
since the lawyers would accuse the staff of neglect. All I can do is look
around the room, point my eyeballs at something, anything, else, and I
note myself looking for the exit. I know that here, in front of me, is a
problem that nobody can fix, that society cannot bring itself to fix.
There are laws, logistical, physical and legal, against that. Life is
precious, even when it's just a facade, an uninhabited shell, we have to
cling to the idea that it might have meaning, or might have once had it.

One of her friends, Julie, is there. I hardly know her. Mum, Dad, Julie
and I stand around the bed. Dad beside me. Mum and Julie on the other
side. Julie and Mum talk to her. The topic ultimately turns to cars. All
three of them chat about the price of fucking cars in Canberra. We came to
a fucking hospital to... to ... to chat, over a newly crippled human,
about ... getting a better automobile deal. 

I am silent. These people all claim to be religious, christian, catholic,
or something like that. Julie has a gold crucifix hanging from her neck
and she initiated the car thread. Is this what people do when they need to
pretend everything's normal? Do humans have any dignity at all? Sis here,
as far as I know, is quite possibly not _even_ a vegetable (put a veggie
in the ground and it functions unassisted, after all) and we're gonna
talk about anything remotely distant to what's left of this person, here,
in this bed, now.

I have accused my parents of shallowness before. I need not do it again.
Do they, perhaps, know something I don't? Is this a coping mechanism?

Maybe I'm not reacting to this the way normal siblings do. She is not,
actually, flesh of the same loins as I am. Nobody here is a blood relative
of anyone else. 

I have only one comment to make. I ennunciate it clearly, so it will not
need to be repeated and cannot be escaped.

"In sickness as in health, we talk around her, not to her."

They shut up for a little bit. I don't think she can hear us, she's hooked
up to an automated syringe feeding a general anaesthetic to her. Or maybe
them for a second or two. They know what I mean. We'd eat with her,
sometimes, at restaurants, and she was quickly relegated to the periphery
of the conversation, maybe she couldn't keep up, but maybe we never let
her, or maybe ... oh, I dunno, she considered she had nothing of interest
to say.

She beeps a bit more then goes back to her regularly programmed schedule,
or scheduled regular programming, or whatever the microprocessor running
her lungs would call the subroutine which decided she needed more air. 

I ask dad. 

"How are you?"  

He looked significantly older and long of jowl when he got home this
arvo.  

"Oh, a bit stressed, as we all are." 

Ever the controlled medical professional. 

"You should have been a diplomat, you know.  I'll try that again, how are
you?"

"And I'll tell you again, a bit stressed."

I feel for a second, angered by this resolute display of professionalism.
Here we are at his place of work and his daughter's in-process, one of the
clientele. I guess he feels he can't afford to break down in front of the
rest of the crew. I don't actually know what he feels. I don't press it.

I look for her charts, they're not on the end of the bed. I can read these
things, provided whoever writes in them is legible, which is not often the
case. I do not find them. I think they're on the hospital LAN now, so
anyone in the hospital computer network can get at them, except the
near and dear and the others who aren't authorised.

After a while I leave the ward, go to a small waiting room decorated with
the same pastel flower prints I remember from a completely different wing
of the hospital. Comforting images, syndicated, cheaper in bulk like
everything else here. I look instead at the ceiling where the air
conditioning vent comes in through the tiles and it blows upon me the
recycled air of sadness and despair which pervade this place. I am
snotty. Tears drip off my face and pool up in my spectacles, faintly
patter onto my leather jacket. I add my own frustration at the universe to
the circling, filtered vapours.

I have no god to blame nor beseech nor with whom to bargain. The hard
thing about atheism is that it isn't a faith, it's a lack of any. Nobody
to blame, nothing to look forward to, just the world and you and whatever
happens to you. The universe is right there in your face and nothing
shields you from it, except if you lose enough of your mind. You have
cancer. You have an incurable disease. You have been raped. You have been
incinerated in an accidental fire. You have to die, if you're lucky. You
have to suffer if you're not. There is no why. There is simply what is and
how.

Sucks, but I'd rather know the sucky truth than be fed a tasty lie.

We go to a nearby club, I eat, with difficulty, fish and chips and beer,
here's to our cholesterol-shortened lifespans. Dad goes away for a while
to get his nosh while we hang onto the table for him. I mention to mum,

"She's as healthy as an ox everywhere except where it matters, in her
fucking goddamn head. She won't get better in the long term, and she's not
gonna die, she's not going to get out of it that cleanly, she'll be a
fucking veggie for the next thirty years except she won't even grow in the
fucking sunlight, and I'll be around, cleaning up her fucking mess."

I can't figure mum out either. She grips my hand in her arthritic manner,
and seems completely unfazed by this vitriol, even though I could swear it
etched the enamel off my teeth when I said it, like so much convulsed
vomit. 

More salt splatters off my jacket. Good thing, it puts an edge on the
bland, fatty chips without unduly raising my possession of that ionised
element, the absence of which, in my sister's head, led me to be here,
seeping it onto my dinner. It's a flammable metal, in its native state.
Chuck it in water, it'll explode and turn the water into lye which will
peel your skin right off. Tonight I am not able to, in a metaphorical
sense, extract anything useful from these facts about Natrium. 

Salt of the earth. Worth one's salt. Salinity. Fuck it. I'm disturbing the
other people eating in the room. The woman on the table adjacent, who put
her dinner in a doggie bag and was half way through coffee with a
companion was in earshot of my outburst; they left when I wasn't
looking, their beverages abandoned half-full. 

We walk out through the poker machine farm, where healthy people are
separated from their money in a systematic manner. The beeps here are
multilayered, melodic, multimedia wonders, but just beeps all the same. 

We go home. The dog greets us, seemingly unaware of our grief.  I was
scheduled to be home this weekend, to mind the dog while the oldies went
to Melbourne. They announce they're not going to Melbourne, in case
something happens to her while they're gone. Then, surprisingly, they ask
me if I want to go in their place. As if I'm expected to not be around if
the ship looks like sinking. I decline, wondering what this means.

What good has come of her life? She's been a job creation scheme for a
bunch of scientists, like me, trained to convince themselves they have a
clue; generated profits for some investors in multinational drug
companies. I guess the main thing is, that none of the people in, or
around, the bed, whose surname I bear, are biologically related, and yet,
here we are, a family, doing the family stuff. Family is one of those
words which has been diluted by corporate marketing ... a family of
computer architectures, a family of crockery and cookware, the Toyota
family, the family that shampoos together stays together. These things are
related by design and function, we are made to think, and they are, but
they're built to break, to be used up, or become obsolete, and be replaced
with an upgrade, traded in for next year's model. 

There's the rub. I don't have a biological family and maybe this is how I
had to learn what it's like to have one, they aren't replaceable,
interchangable parts. You have what you've got and that's all you get.
When the shit hits the fan they're what remains to clean it up. I do not
pass this hurdle, my main instinct is to let other people clean up the
messes they make, and I feel traitorious. Maybe in a different universe I
would not have learned this lesson this way or not learned it at all. She
teaches us, by her threatened absence, what it will be like when her life
goes away; that I am lucky to live mine, have a brain which is sorta OK
most of the time, at least from where I sit in it. I cringe inside to
think I could attempt to frame the worth of her life in terms of what I
can learn from it, but I did anyway. Did she have to go through this just
so I could learn these things? I'll get my lessons where I can. No
institute of higher learning has the gall to teach this stuff.

For all I know whatever's left of her will outlast me. The universe,
blind, pitilessly indifferent, doesn't appear to give a shit either way.

Beep. Beep. Beep.

Beep, Beep; beep, beep; yeeaaah. 

She never got a license to drive, either.


Next day is also not a great day. I make it to the Cafe on Enmore road and
meet with a longtime friend with whom I have invested considerable time
and effort in crafting a patent. Yesterday, before I found out about my
sister's episode, I was in the library and found three journal articles
which have effectively gutshot the document, through the existance of
prior art, from about 1990. He wanted to talk to me in the car on the way
to some-or-other jobs he had to do, and I refused to go with him, on the
basis that I had no guarantee that he'd be back at the time he said he'd
be, and nor did I have any defense against the possibility that his phone
would ring en-route, he'd be called to another job, and then my plans
would be pulled like a carpet from beneath my feet without me having any
say in what we did next. It was often the way. He's got the shits about
it. I'm cheap, and usually unemployed, but I'm not at anyone's whim for
beck and call, he must know by now.

Today I met him in the cafe at 9am (he wouldn't decide on a time and place
so I just made one up) and showed him the work. "I think this constitutes
prior art." I said. He's got a lot of emotional attachment to this idea,
and doesn't want to let it go. He sees it as his path to wealth and
acclaim, and I'm here bulldozing rubble onto it. "If you won't believe me,
you can pay our patent attorneys to tell you it is, instead." He's back to
kicking around ideas involving ghosted cells. Hmmm. Sure. Maybe. Maybe
not.

Then, seeing that our efforts on the patent are largely untenable, he gets
back into talking about his scheme for making money, based on an
encryption system he doesn't quite understand was thought of long before
he ever conceived of it - digital random one-time pads and XOR. It's
nearly as old as he is. Simple in the execution with modern hardware,
really, but he fails to understand that the people who are crypto-savvy
enough to want this are also savvy enough to know that in cryptography,
people can only trust themselves, and they can, and will, do it
themselves, and pretty much for free, since the code is available on the
net for nothing. I tell him this. I also tell him it's very hard to make
money out of something already available for free everywhere - PGP,
and blowfish, are at least as hard as XOR with good noise. 

He thinks I've made no effort to try and make it work, despite having
built a reverse-biased semiconductor noise source and tacked it to a hex
inverter amp to take it to TTL levels, and despite my waltzing into his
office one day with two CDROMs with 25Mb of what he wanted on both, which
is more than he ever did with it than talk about it. He thinks my attitude
is negative. He stood up, tersely paid for his fare and walked out of the
cafe.

This is usually some kind of insult but I don't notice it. I don't feel
particularly torn up by either of these things. I have no inclination to
change my stance or story, since that's the one I found out from personal
experience and discussion with embarrassingly knowledgable crypto geeks on
the net. Shooting the messenger is a common enough behaviour amongst
people, within their expected range of responses to awareness of frames of
reality with which they'd rather not deal. I was doing it last night,
glaring at the machine assisted body on the gurney. 

I wonder if he will speak to me again, this mate and confident of nearly a
decade. I don't much care either way, mainly because I can't.

Some things work as usual. Poverty and desparation. I go back to the
squat, fire up the borrowed whippersnipper and devastate the overgrown
front yard. I had to borrow one since I loaned my one to someone else and
they'd overdriven it so hard the motor coils had melted, before they gave
it back to me, without any mention of this little problem. Thanks Rick.
 
The stench of vapourised chloroplasts and aerosolised dirt assails me
against the ripping, whizzing noise of the wire as it slices through the
grass. Half way into the job some guy shows up with a lawnmower, saying
the neighbors sent him. Did they pay for you to come here and mow the
lawn, I ask? No. I suggest to him that he get them to put their money
where their mouths are before he strolls into a place to maintain it on
someone else's behalf, and that I'm doing this myself because I can't pay
anyone else to do it. He leaves.

I dump my clothes and shower with the plug in. The hot water works because
I fought long and hard with the plumbing until it did. I pull the plug
and emerge refreshed, water dripping from me. I find myself watching, for
longer than I think I should, the fractured blades of grass spiral into
the outlet. The fluid drains out and the plughole burps the same burp it
always does, I think, though I have not lingered to observe it. 


