 
Domain name database unable to take the load
Tuesday 08 May, 2001
By BARRY PARK

Australia's Internet industry representative body has called on the online
community to be patient until a core database can be moved to a new host
later this month.

The AUNIC database, the central registry of much of the Australian domain
name information, has slowed to a crawl after several problems hit the
service since the .auDomain Authority (auDA) took over responsibility for
it.

The auDA chief executive officer Chris Disspain said the database was
still housed on the same "Pentium II 200 or something" computer that had
both driven the database and hosted the www.aunic.net website for a number
of years.

He said it was "coincidental" that the server, which handles thousands of
whois requests from domain name registrars and the public, had slowed to
the point where it had become "very, very slow".

"That's to do with two things - the age of the machine that it's on and
it's also to do with the amount of traffic that that machine is having to
deal with, which is significant," Disspain said.

"We are working on a couple of interim measures, which may see us improve
over the transition period, but other than that it's just a matter of
finishing off the transition to the new service. All of that has happened
in the quickest possible time, it's just that unfortunately, the machine
that it's on is reaching the end of its natural life.

"It's slow and causing lots of inconvenience to people, but the only way
we can safely take it off that machine is to follow the migration plan,
and the migration plan, unfortunately, takes time."

Disspain said the server was requiring reboots - almost on a daily basis -
in an attempt to improve its speed.

It has suffered several bouts of downtime, including one in which part of
the registry's database was corrupted.

The whois database was formerly maintained by Telstra Internet strategy
and research chief scientist Geoff Huston.

Disspain said Huston, who had maintained the database on a voluntary basis
for more than 10 years, handed it over to auDA in early February after it
became too much of a burden.

Rather than maintain the database itself, auDA late last year put the
service's hosting out to tender.

The tender was won by a consortium made up of domain name registrar
NetRegistry and telecommunications company Cable Wireless Optus.

Part of the tender includes a service level agreement that guarantees the
consortium will compensate registrars for whois database downtime.

Bruce Tonkin, chief technology officer with .com.au registrar Melbourne
IT, said auDA's handling of the AUNIC database since taking responsibility
for it had been "disappointing".

"All domain names that we register are lodged with AUNIC and they need to
be lodged with AUNIC before they are allocated to customers," Tonkin said.

"Because of that, it's generally seriously impacted the quality of service
that we can provide customers because ... customers have had to come back
and try several times before they are able to actually register their
domain name."

Tonkin said the problems with the database had seriously affected its
customers' ability to update entries, as well as others who were moving
the location of domain name referrals.


Tonkin said Melbourne IT had offered to help auDA with its administration
of the AUNIC database.

He said the former administration of the database had been overwhelmed by
the growth in the Internet and did not have the investment to grow at the
same rate. "There's been no investment in software or in hardware for a
long period of time. In something like that, it's just like any other
utility - if you don't put any investment in it, then eventually as the
load increases, it just starts to fall over."

Tonkin said moving the server over to a new architecture, as well as
changing its physical location - it will move from Canberra to Sydney as
part of the migration - was a difficult process for auDA to handle. He
said he was expecting auDA to complete the transition "some time into
June".


--------------------------------

 
