From predator@cat.org.au Sat May  8 16:21:43 2004
Date: Sat, 8 May 2004 15:58:54 +1000 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: Stacy Scheff <stacy@cat.org.au>
Subject: But wait, there's more... (fwd)


Now I know why my back hurts. IVC= inferior vena cava. Check it out in the
Grays Anatomy, big fat central vein taking blood out of my legs and
kidneys and stuff, and routing it up to the right cardiac atrium, if
memory serves me correctly.




---------- Forwarded message ----------
Date: Sat, 8 May 2004 15:55:29 +1000 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: carole hungerford <carolehungerford@hotmail.com>
Subject: But wait, there's more...


Hi Caz...

I climbed into the CT scanner today, and they scanned the chest and
abdomen. I thought something might be uh, interesting since they spent a
bit more time than usual scanning my lower body.  This is because, as
Eisinger might have suspected, there's more involved lymph nodes, so they
scanned 'em again at higher resolution. Here's the chewy assessment:

----------------------------
Folio 889299-1 U/R No 59376

There is a mass lesion in the left supraclavicular region measuring 5.1 x
4.3 cm in diameter with inhomogeneous attenuation after IV contrast and
this has the appearances of a lymph node mass. Comparison is made with a
previous scan of 20/04/04 and this has not changed significantly in
appearence. There is no mediastinal lymphadenopathy and the lungs and
pleural cavities remain clear.

There are no signs of any pulmonary metastases.

In the abdomen the liver appears normal and there are no hepatic
metastases. There is a soft tissue mass lesion behind the IVC displacing
and compressing the IVC and there appears to be some large retrocaval
lymph nodes present probably due to metastatic disease. This is best
appreciated on images 63 to 72 on page 4 and in the last enlarged
film. The left nephrectomy is noted. The right kidney function promptly
after intravenous injection is normal. The pancreas and spleen are
unremarkable and there was no further abnormality demonstrated.

CONCLUSION    Enlarged lymph nodes in left supraclavicular fossa and right
retrocaval region.

Dr E Bass

----------------------------
The fun doesn't stop, does it? I'll wave this under Poole's nose on Tues.

Oh, yeah. On Se, my Martindales 30th suggests that the absolute max one
should be taking of selenomethionine or selenocysteine is 465 mikes daily
and they (whoever wrote the particular report) also reckon there was no
really hard evidence to suggest the stuff was really of any benefit for
cancer or cardiovascular disease; The jar I buy containing it suggests
more than 100 mikes/day is toxic. I figure it's no good taking the stuff
at oncostatic levels if that will bugger up other things (Martindales
refers to a report suggesting Se homeostasis might be destabilised in the
presence of large [Se]. So 100 mikes it shall be. Oral Se doesn't appear
to have slowed down the appearance of other lymph mets though again these
might have been cryptics, already doomed before we tossed the kidney.


-------

Cheeries....

<pred>


