From predator@cat.org.au Fri Apr 27 12:42:12 2001
Date: Fri, 27 Apr 2001 12:34:19 +1000 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: "<predator>" <predator@cat.org.au>
Subject: Growl... bloat-a-rama.

Hi Joss, I just got a huge attachment. I could not read most of it, I got
the bottom bit, about the Drinker's Weekly. No useful stuff about where
and when. I'll have to rely on you to determine that.
 
I will eventually discover the email address of the sender and forward
this message to them. In this way, shooting the messenger is avoided.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
I just received your 819,000 byte file, with a total information content
of just under 790kb. Please take note of the following information.

<form letter>

In future transmissions, please use ASCII text to convey your important
information. Some people no convenient method of perusal for encapsulated
postscript, BinHex, any of the various and inter-incompatable versions of
MS-Word, Rich Text Format, PDF/PostScript, progressive JPEGs (c.f. the
original jpg specification), FLASH vector graphics or the like.

I pulled the file down as an attachment, and it was bloated by all the
MIME-encapsulation which enables the email system to transfer messages for
which it was not designed.

The correct and polite method for bringing people's attention to graphical
data is to host it on a website (these are available instantly,
anonymously and for free) and distribute the URL. Please do this in
future. Others will appreciate it.

If you feel you must send (small) graphics via the email service, please
employ a utility to compress your image down to a reasonable size by
transformation into a JPG. Where possible please avoid bandwidth-wasting
formats such as bitmaps, which are, incidentally, a propriety corporate
format (as opposed to say, .PNG). Your 800kb .BMP file will be 80kB when
compressed with the JPEG algorithm, which is able to be read by browsers
everywhere.

Not everyone can, due to time or hardware constraints, look at graphics. I
work on a text terminal, since the system upon which I get my mail is a
dedicated DNS, FTP, mail and web server (c.f. client) and configured for
maximum reliability and optimised for brute speed. Hence it is not
configured to employ processor cycles operating a graphical user
interface, or run an unstable microsoft OS such as the one you may be
using. Please send significant information in plain text.

Further receipt of large email attachments from you will result in your
address being added to my spamfilter. If the filter logs show you continue
to attempt to send large files to me in email, I may opt to, by way of
gentle demonstration, mail you the 65Mb of kernel source for the latest
distribution of Linux. Such an attachment might do some or all of the
following: at 20c/Mb, cost you about $13 in excess bandwidth charges;
earn you the wrath of your mail administrators; take several hours to
download; fill all of your mail cache and probably crash your system by
eating all of the available disk space. 

This is, and will be excessive. It will happen until you realise you are
one of several people who jam my inbox with excessively large attachments
and I have to deal with all of them. Not all of them bother to read this
far down the page, but they all pay attention when I decide to break their
mail.

Kind regards...

<predator>

