Bleeding
For you, I was the sparrow who picks the jaws of the crocodile. I thought you were the dragon who just wanted someone to play with. You tricked me, you sinuous beast, you hissing snake, you purring cat. 
I stroked your shaved head and it was warm and live like animal fur.
Everyone is scared of me, you moaned, everyone is scared of me, you taunted.
Not me! Not me! I chirped.
Run away, little grub, run back to your safe little world. No-one is strong enough to walk with me, I walk in darkness.
He was apocalyptic. Everything was dark and light, condemnation, damnation, redemption and truth. I thought I was a sparrow but I was just a girl who got pulled in by the ankles.
Me! Me! I am big enough. I'm not scared of anything! I'm not scared of you. You don't know how strong I am. 
He had a dimple in his right cheek, a hole big enough for a thumbprint when he smiled. When we became closer, I pressed my thumb into the dent and felt it form under my touch. 
On the night he rang to tell me that this was the end, he was finally going to kill himself, we walked down to the wharf. Now I wonder how many other friends, how many times, have received calls like this late at night. I calmed him, soothed him, and when he had gathered sufficient will to live, we walked to the black water and stared in. I joked, 'Well, for a minute there I thought you were going to throw yourself in.' He said, soft, menacing, 'No, I'll just throw you in instead.' I laughed, uneasy. If he had sensed that I thought he was serious, I would not have been surprised to feel strong thin arms behind me, a cold rush of water, my head cracking on a rock. 
His head flicked up at the wharf sky and his arm followed in a perfect Nazi arc. The corners of his mouth and eyes fell to show the deep solemnity of this moment. 'Bat,' he announced. This ability to detect the presence of a bat in the sky was supposed to display his affinity with them, and his magical powers. I couldn't see the bat myself. 
The next night he was worse. He was going to kill everyone who had ever hurt him, left him, abandoned him, broken his trust. I am alone in this world, go back to your safe little world. I walk alone in darkness. He was going to be Charles Manson, he was going to be Aleister Crowley, he was going to kill everyone without leaving his room. The force of the universe is flowing through me! he proclaimed.
I stayed with him for ten hours. I slept in his bed, in a deserted suburb, in the most frightening hours of the night. I tried to leave three times. I can't believe you're leaving me! he whined. You said you'd be my friend. He was nasty and pleading, mocking and cajoling by turns. His mood flipped, quickly as a fish, from ecstatic to suicidal. When he let me go home, he told me he would go to work, and when he came home he would kill himself. But I could stop him. Only you have the key, he said. 
'What can I do?' I sobbed, distraught, sleepless, guilty. Everything was my fault. I was playing with him. He felt raped by me. You shouldn't have to ask me, you should already know. Don't touch me. You won't see me again. His last words to me were Why are you smiling? You must be sicker than I thought. 
He seeped into me, poisoned my blood. However much I tell you here, only he and I know what happened. Only he and I know that I had to bleed him out of me. He was a cancer to cut out, a leech who thought he was healing me.
A week later I found myself on the living room floor, alone with a razorblade, tearing great holes in my body. I do not remember much about it, only that it hurt in a distant, almost pleasurable way, that the blood felt cold and wet as it ran down my arms, my legs, my face, my stomach and breasts. I remember also the fascination with which I watched the flesh part under the blade, exposing layers of fat and skin before it welled up with blood. I grew bolder and bolder, until I cut my leg so deeply that muscle was exposed. The floor was soaked in blood. I had to show him. I rang him, crying. Help me I said, I have been playing silly games. There were other people I should have called, but I had to show him. It worked. He flowed out with the last gush of blood and I was rid of him.
I had a child's fascination for my own blood, and a child's pride in the newly forming scars, pinky purple and taut silver when I stretched. When the doctor gently, expertly, laid gauze and tape and rolled bandages over my legs it made my wounds official and my pain clean and open. For a weekend I had been alone, red-streaked and wild-haired, afraid to wash lest the cuts opened again, hobbling and limping, shrouded.
There are fine lines in my face where no lines should be. More skinny dents than feathery creases, they follow almost but not quite the patterns where wrinkles will form. A horizontal slant on my forehead, not quite in line with frown marks. Two sloping lines from nose to mouth, not quite in line with smile marks. And one long, dark slash on my right cheek, incongruous, inexplicable, intersecting with the moles and freckles. It is as if someone had taken a sheet of wrinkles and fitted them imperfectly to my face. Other people say they cannot see them; they are kind and probably sincere, but they are not in the habit of inspecting my face from a distance of two millimetres, in the middle of the night, in the morning, under flourescent lights, bathroom-white light, toilet-yellow light, naked bulbs, harsh lights that make my skin glow yellow and green, sickly, faded, while I search these early wrinkles. 
I am not distressed by this ageing. I am finally growing into my features. I am letting the colour fall out of my hair. Nothing could please me more than to become grey, faded, muted, transparent. I want to be wrapped up, put away, kept safe, kept warm, kept cool, hibernating, fermenting. I have witnessed my own bloody murder at the hands of a madman, and I dare not even write his name here, because he is still alive, crouching, ears tuned like a bat for the littlest noise from my corner. 
1


1


