From guyd@zip.com.au Mon Feb 10 18:48:48 2003
Date: Mon, 10 Feb 2003 00:14:54 +1100
From: Guy Dunphy <guyd@zip.com.au>
To: predator@cat.org.au
Subject: Typical

Hi Mike,

This may amuse you - My first girlfriend (Jennifer) contacted me recently
by email. Seems I'm easy to find via google - gee, I wonder why? Its not as
if I ever wrote anything and posted it anywhere!

Anyway, I thought it was good news. But only for a little while.
Because, it turns out she is a born again christian. *And* has multiple
schlerosis (mild), but as she says (jokingly) it seems like there must
be some brain lesions. Its not so funny to me, I think she probably has.

The letter exchanges are getting quite tedious - typical christian obsession
with how great her belief system is, and do I mind if she keeps taking about it?
And she reads _widely_, she says - the church library has _lots_ of books.

Here's a sample:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You say,  ^\perhaps I have been spending a lot of time lately,  among people who think very much like me?^]  I can^Yt be more emphatic than to say no,  no,  no  I am not inward looking or narrow minded or wearing blinkers.  I just know what I believe is true.  My reading is not as you think,  a lot of what I read has been written by former atheists,  from their angle and perspective.  Our Dave is not a believer,  so I have gone out of my way to provide him with a balanced diet of information about many belief systems,  so he can choose for himself when he is ready.  Science particularly points to the validity of Christianity.
----------------------------------------------------------

And no, she can't do indenting, and yes, those funny characters are the result of using
microsoft software. Which I can see there is _no_ point in trying to get her to change.

!! "some of the people she reads were former atheists!" Thats adventurous!

Sigh. Quite painfull.
Think I'll just let it die a death of lengthening response times.

In respect of my memories of her 16/17 year old former self, I'm not going
to say anything sarcastic to her.

Life is a bitch sometimes.


Oh, and on the topic of screamingly unfunny news, Ra has decided to buy a new car.
Thats *NEW*, as in just in from Japan. Fortunately this is a result of her mother
and brother giving her a gift of most of the money to buy it. Their thanks for some
good housing investment advice she gave them (ie a share of the profit for her.)
But still, can you think of a worse time, in the history of industrial man, to
buy a new car? Right at the start of the oil wars... just days away...
Just as gold is actually starting its run for the sky... Its a 4-whhel drive, so
(quote) "we have a nice car to go away in".  Go away where? Name a place that
isn't burnt out, and won't still be shit by the time the oil is all gone.
Shhesh!


Anyway, thats probably got _you_ depressed as well now. So, to cheer you up,
here's a story (porn). I rewrote a lot of it, but it will still seem like
someone else's style. Because it is!
I liked the oiginal story (for its central idea) but it had _no_ character
developement, thoughts, etc.
Guy
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              Yes, its a RIP OFF. Sorry.

This is an extensive rewrite of the original story BODY DONATION,
as written and posted to yahoo groups 'strip search' forum by Sarah
Kingdom. See posting # 2479

OK, its actually a shameless theft of her great idea, a lot of
Sarah's writing, character names, and most of the plot.
Its also my first post to this forum. Not a good start.

My excuse: I couldn't resist it! The idea was so great, with so
much potential for further developments, yet lacking in certain
aspects such as character development, and allusion to future
events. It was just begging for it! I couldn't help myself!
Honest!

At least I changed the title.

---------------------------------------------------------------------
SAVE THE ANIMALS!
Part One of ?

Rachel does her bit to help stop animal experiments.

IN THE MALL


Rachel was taking a deserved Friday afternoon off from the crazyness of
the office. Dressed in a smart, grey business suit she was a delightful
sight. Tall and slim with long dark, straight hair, she was admired by
men in the mall as she strode elegantly past.

She'd had quite enough of the office for this week. Most of her co-workers
had managed to offend her ideals in the last few days. They seemed to care
for nothing outside the narrow, thoughtless scope of their lives. This
last week the news of the terrible oil spill had been breaking her heart,
with its immense loss and suffering of wildlife along the coast. Yet
her closest girlfriends in the office seemed to talk of nothing but
Francine's affair with the courier fellow, and who had caught them
doing what. As if anyone cared about that. Disgusting rumours, she
certainly would never believe even that tart Francine could have got
herself in such a predicament. No one would own up to having actually
found her and calling rescue to get her released, rather than helping
her themselves, so the whole thing was probably another urban legend
in the making.

Such an annoying empty din, like television adverts - totally braindead,
but still requiring an effort to pull oneself away. To ignore the nasty
cheap excitement such stories sadly tended to stir in the body. She was
above such things, thankfully. Well, almost entirely. It was so irritating
how they'd keep dropping in on her office, passing on the most disgusting
snippets.

She'd have to politely listen, feigning interest, then be thrown off her
work later, as she concentrated on not thinking about... that nonsense.
Finally this morning, she'd lost her temper and told Julia and Gwen to
get out of her office, and take their nasty gossip with them. A bit too
harsh, perhaps. They'd been offended, and told her to lighten up, it
was just good fun. She'd told them she'd had more than enough of that
'fun' and intended to never hear any more of it again.

As for James, her till-recent friend - how was she to know he actually
went hunting poor deer, with a _gun_. How callously egotistical! It would
serve him right if he caught that disease from the meat, and there was
_no_way_ she thought his offer of a fresh venison dinner at his place
was even funny.
Still worse when it turned out that at least four of the other guys at
work _had_ eaten James' murdered deer that night. And were now, this
very afternoon, chattily planning another 'office hunting party'! How
could she ever speak to them again?
When she'd walked in on the conversation at the water cooler, she'd
actually shouted at them. She'd announced she was getting out of that
testosterone tub, right NOW. And had left for the afternoon.
Let them wonder.

Browsing the mall shops, she was angrilly crossing off her various
co-workers from her mental 'speak to again' list, when she found herself
in front of a jeweller's shop. Hah! She was becoming more and more convinced
these days, that the whole idea of letting herself be tied to some oaf
by a bit of polished carbon crystal was a huge dead end. Thinking of it
now, she can barely believe that back in her teens she had been heartbroken
when her first boyfriend Alex had left her for another, after more than
a year of... well, a year. But in the end, it had been a lucky break.
It had taken her a while to mature, and realise how exploitive he'd been,
in the way he'd treated her. But she was over that, well in control of
the animal urges of her body by the time she was a year into college.
That had been a bit difficult, at first, keeping her mind focussed on
study, and not the things she'd used to do with Alex. Or really, that
he'd done with her, the manipulative bastard. And she's allowed too,
to her shame. Just because it felt... no, best put aside. She'd sure
learnt what dangers lay in _that_ thicket! First boyfriend, and last
boyfriend, who _needs_ them! she thinks.


She wanders on, picking up the groceries for the weekend. Which she
plans to spend by herself, at her oasis of sanity, her little flat.
Perhaps an evening at a play in town, about a woman's struggle for
recognition in the male-ruled academia of 19th century England.


As she is about done in the mall anyway, she comes across an animal
rights activist stand in a quieter corner. They have a variety of
truly shocking literature, on the cruelty inflicted on countless
animals in the name of scientific research. It makes her sick to her
stomach, all of it. Why does the world have to be so perverted and
vile?
A lifelong animal lover, Rachel is feeling extra fed up with such
cruelty today, what with her deer-hunting co-workers. She reaches for
her purse, and makes a generous donation.

"Thank you very much." responds one of the serious girls behind the table.
"There is something else you could do to help us if you want."

"What can I do?" replies Rachel.

"Why not agree to carry one of these?" The girl holds up a small plastic
card and Rachel accepts it from her. It bears the words HUMANE RESEARCH
DONOR CARD. Underneath this a short statement of agreement that the body
of the card holder may be used for education or scientific research
in place of the use of animals.

"All you have to do is sign up with us and carry that card with you. If we
get enough people on board we can stop animals being used in research. All
the tests those scientists need to do can be done on human tissue which is
probably much more useful anyway."

"And they would stop testing things on animals?" asks Rachel.

"Hopefully." the girl smiles. "A lot of people carry kidney donor cards
and the like. Why not help the animals too? I've got mine." The girl
proudly takes a card from her pocket and holds it up.


"That's a great idea. What do I have to do?" Rachel asks, excited at being
able to do something really positive for the animals.

"Just read these papers and enter your details and signature at the bottom.
You can keep that card you have there. Just keep it on your person at all
times. Then all you have to do is go up to the University labs so that
they can check that you are suitable. That's it really. Then you'll be
a donor."

Rachel enthusiasticly takes the papers from the girl. There are three pages
detailing the agreement with a form at the end for personal details. She
quickly fills in her details and signs the document.

"When can I go to the University? Will they contact me?"

The girl takes the papers. "No, just pop up any time and ask for Doctor
Keir. He'll complete your registration. That's his name on the card."

"I'm off for the rest of the day. Maybe I can pop up this afternoon."

The girl smiles. "I'm sure that would be OK. Thank you for joining up.
We really are very grateful for this."

Rachel slips the card into her purse. "It's no problem and thank YOU
very much."

She smiles to herself as she walks away. It really made her feel
good that she could do her own bit in stopping all this cruelty to
animals. Perhaps today was not totally a series of disasters after all.

                   -----------------------------


IN THE DOCTOR'S OFFICE

Much later that day, Rachel has found her way to the university, and with
some assistance to the office of Dr Keir. This turns out to be a windowless
and funtionally furnished room, well back into the depths of the Medical
Sciences Faculty building. She is shown through a final maze of the School
of Experimental Studies by a crusty old School secretary, who manages to
act as if Rachel is far beneath her level, despite being a good five inches
shorter than Rachel.  The woman, who must be in her forties if a day,
knocks on the Doctor's door, and introduces Rachel as 'Another of your
donors' and leaves, with a disapproving sniff.


The doctor welcomes her disinterestedly, seeming a little preoccupied
with his coomputer screen. He does not rise, but waves her to take the
seat in front of his desk. Rachel sits.

He taps at the keys a few moments more, then a laser printer whines into
action behind him. He turns to Rachel.

"Hello Rachel. Thank you for volunteering to donate to eliminate animal
experimentation. Its heartening to see how many people are motivated!
Your form arrived a while ago, and now all we have to do is a quick
examination and you will be officially accepted as a donor."

Rachel is unsure. "What kind of examination?"

"Don't worry. It's just a formality. I have to make sure you are suitable.
We don't want anyone with a history of drugs or ill-health. Just a quick,
basic medical check and your registration will be complete."

Rachel is still unsure. "What do I have to do?" Maybe this wasn't such a
good idea after all.

"You don't have to do anything difficult, Miss Lake. Just do as I say.
I know what I am doing, after all I am a Doctor. It shouldn't take more
than about fifteen minutes. I am in a hurry to leave this evening anyway."

Rachel doesn't want to be examined but she doesn't want to back out. She
really wanted to help the animals, and she came all this way. "If I don't
agree to let you examine me, will that mean I won't be accepted as a donor?"

The Doctor smiled. "That's right. Actually you already have agreed to this
when you signed up earlier. I am within my rights to insist that you
cooperate. I can call a couple of assistants to help me if you do not do
as I say. Those two graduate research assistants you saw in the School
office near Ms Pelton. Who brought you through here. I'm sure they'd be
delighted to assist me.


Rachel is shocked. "That can't be right."

"I'm afraid it is. You should always read the small print on any contract
you sign."

Rachel sits quietly. How can this be happening? She is effectively being
forced to let this Doctor examine her. She kicks herself for not reading
the fine print. Helping the animals is all very well, but not so great
if it means she has to let this impolite example of the male species touch
her.

"It's up to you, Miss Lake. Cooperate with the examination, or I will call
my assistants to give me a hand. They are not the gentlest of men. It would
be much easier for both of us if you simply agree to have the checkup.
It will be very brief."

Hesitantly, Rachel thinks back to the two young men she remembers seeing
on the way in. She'd thought they were janitors or something. They did look
rather rough. "I guess I don't really have much choice. I wish I hadn't
come here today."

"Come, come now Miss Lake", says the Doctor. "Your donation is much appreciated.
The examination is a small price to pay for helping the animals, isn't it?"

"OK." says Rachel. "Let's get this over with. What do I have to do?"

"Just go and stand over there in front of the white screen."

Rachel looks across and sees a digital camera on a tripod facing a large
white screen. Next to this is a small desk with a PC. A small black cross
of sticky tape lies on the floor about two feet from the screen.

"Stand on the cross and face the camera."

Rachel walks over and stands on the cross. She turns to face the camera
and then watches as the Doctor approaches and stands behind the camera.
He begins to adjust the controls and look at the PC screen.

"We need some pictures of you for our records. Stand to attention with
your arms at your side. Please stand straight and look directly at me. "

Rachel stands up straight. The Doctor continues to concentrate on the camera.

"Good. Now turn 90 degrees to your right."

Rachel turns to face a painting on the wall. Now the camera has a view
of her left profile. The painting is of a restfull pastoral scene, with
roses.

"Stand up straight again."

Rachel stares at the painting as the Doctor takes the next picture.

"Now turn another 90 degrees to your right and face the screen"

Rachel turns again. She stands to attention without being told.

"Thats it. Another 90 degree turn please."

Rachel turns and faces the door. Again she stands to attention.

The Doctor spoke. "OK. That's those shots done. Face the front again."

Rachel turns to face the camera again.

The Doctor walks over to a device between Rachel and the door.
"I need to measure your height now. Please take off your shoes
and come over here. Put the shoes in this plastic crate."
He lifts up a small, grey plastic crate and puts it on top of his
desk.

Rachel steps out of her shoes and bends down to pick them up.
She carries them to the desk and puts them into the grey, plastic
crate. The carpet feels soft and deep to her bare feet. Somehow
reassuring. She notices a white label on the side of the crate.

RACHEL LAKE
BODY DONATION
VOLUNTEER 183

'How organised!' she thinks. "To even have that personalised
already.' 

"Hurry up!" the Doctor speaks sharply. "I haven't got all day.
I like to get home early on a Friday evening."

Rachel walks over to the man who stands next to the wall. On it
are marked height measurements up to seven feet. She notices
there are faint remnants of very many pen marks on the scale.

"Stand up straight with your back against the wall".

Rachel does as she is told and the man uses a pencil to make a
mark on the wall level with the top of her head.

"Step away now. Go and sit down on the chair next to my desk"

The Doctor looks at the height measurement and then walks over
to his desk and sits down. He writes on an A4 sheet of paper.

"Now I need to have a little listen to your heart and examine your
arms. Take off your jacket and blouse and put them in the crate."

Rachel pauses, not sure if she should continue. Her heart takes a
tiny skip, as she thinks 'How much... is this going to be a real
physical?' She hasn't ever actually had a... a _full_ medical
before.... but that won't be happening here, certainly!

"What are you waiting for? Are you wearing a bra?"

"Y..y..yes."

"Then there should be no problem. Take off your jacket and blouse.
I am a Doctor you know. Or perhaps you would prefer me to call my
assistants."

'No, she thinks, it can't be _that_ sort of exam. Just her jacket
off, thats OK.' She definately would walk out if things went too far,
so its just _silly_ for her body to start that.... 'Now stop that!'
she scolds herself sternly. This is _no_ place to start having those
nasty, demanding feelings... down there. Its not as if the doctor was
going to make her strip naked, then tease her... her sex with his
fingers until...

Shaking herself loose from that train of thought, despite the unwanted
flush spreading in her privates, Rachel stands up and slips off her
jacket. Folding it, she places it over her shoes. She slowly starts
to undo the buttons of her white blouse, working down from the top.

"Please hurry, Miss Lake. I don't want to be here all night."

Rachel hurriedly finishes unbuttoning the blouse and slips it from
her shoulders. She reveals a white, lacy bra. She folds the blouse
and places it on top of her jacket. She now stands in her white
bra with her grey suit trousers and bare feet. There is something
happening with her nipples, she can tell. 'Why is it that being told
to undress, even a little, seems to make her heart race so?' she
thinks. With her boyfriend, it was because she knew what it would
lead to, and before she had grown more mature, she had let her
body's desires lead her onwards. Thank God her teens were behind
her.

"Please sit down."

The Doctor approaches her with a stethoscope. "Just keep breathing
as normal." He listens as she slowly inhales and exhales. "Now breathe
in deeply and hold." Rachel holds her breath for a few seconds before
the Doctor said "... and out." He took the stethoscope off and put
it in his desk drawer.

"Please relax, Miss Lake, your heart rate is quite high. There is nothing
to be concerned about, just a routine."

He then turns his attention to Rachel's arms. He strokes each one in
turn looking for any marks or tattoos.

"Everything seems to be in order. Now stand up and remove your trousers.
I need to take a look at your legs."

She stands, raising her eyebrows in a private guesture of surprise.
'Trousers too! Hope I'm not showing a damp patch on my panties.'
She finds that the thought of him seeing that, causes an inexplicable
flare up of the heat between her legs. 'What would he think of me?!'
she wonders. 'Oh my, what if he noticed, and decided he really should
do a... a _full_ exam, in case I'm abnormal down there? Wetting myself,
he'd probably wonder why that was.' In dismay, she senses that in
fact, the thought seems to have precipitated that very problem, as
a slick dampness spreads down there with her movement of standing up
and removing her belt.

Somehow, the predicament preoccupies her mind as she unzips the
trousers, slowly lowers them while wondering how long she will have
to stand in panties and bra, and if she can hide the stain that long.
She steps out of the right and then left leg. Lifting her legs has
made the hot slickness even worse.

She starts to fold them, holding them in front of her waist.

"Please give them to me."

Rachel hands the trousers to the Doctor. He takes them and puts them
into the crate. Rachel stands in only her bra and panties. He crouches
down in front of her and runs his hands up and down her left leg.
He briefly touches her panties before moving his hands down to her
ankle. He repeats this examination on her right leg. He then moves
behind her and examines both her legs again.

"Very satisfactory," he said. "I'm so glad that you seem to have no
tattoos or piercing. I'm afraid that we would have had to reject your
donation if you had."

She breathes an inward sigh of relief - the spot must not have showed
yet. Lucky! Its really starting to feel quite liquid down there,
inside. Puffy, too. By now her ex-boyfriend would have started taking
liberties, she thinks, remembering the feelings...

He stands up and walks over to the camera.

"I think now would be an opportune movement to take another set
of pictures. Please come over and stand on the black cross again."

In only her white bra and panties, Rachel walks over to the white
screen and stood on the cross, facing the Doctor and his camera.
She stood to attention without being prompted, holding her legs
close together.

The Doctor studies the camera again before asking Rachel to turn to
her right. He again takes pictures of her from the front, left side,
back and right side.

"I see you are wearing some jewellery. Please remove your watch,
rings and necklace" he says.


Rachel reaches behind her neck and undoes the clasp of her necklace.
The Doctor holds his hand out and Rachel places it into his hand.
She then takes off her watch and the two rings she was wearing and
again the Doctor palms them. He walks over to the crate on the desk
and lays them on top of her trousers.

"Now I need to weigh you. Remove the rest of your clothing and step
on the scales."

Rachel is shocked. "W..w..what?" she stammered. Her heart pounds, and
a sudden fluttering clamping of her lower abdominal muscles contributes
greatly to her moisture problem. Her panties now definately feel wet
against her sex.

"I'm in no mood to argue with you Miss Lake. Take your bra and panties
off so that I can complete your examination. " He looks at his watch.
"I need to be out of here in fifteen minutes. If I haven't finished
with you I'll have to get my assistants to come in and finish you for
me. I'm sure they'd like that."

Rachel walks over to the scales and stands on them. 'Perhaps if she
does remove them, just for this weighing, she can hide the dark
stain she knows the white material must show. Hold them in her hand
till she puts them back on after the weighing. No, wait... that..'
She has paused, thinking franticly. It also occurs to her that her
nipples must be a sight too. What to do?! But the idea of those
young layabouts being present... unthinkable!

"I can't take a proper reading with you wearing clothes Miss Lake."

Rachel slowly reaches behind her and fumbles as she tries to undo the
clasp of her white, lacy bra. She lowers the strap on her right
shoulder then the left.

"Hurry please!"

Again that clench, and surge of rising sexual excitement in her, against
all her efforts. This is as bad as when her boyfriend would order her
around, foolish shallow minded teen that she was those years ago.
Why does this man's scolding produce the same animalistic urges?
Anyway, she can wonder about that later. Best just get this distasteful
affair over as quickly as possible. Thats the last time she ever signs
something without reading the fine print!

But she still doesn't like the idea of him seeing the state of her now
aching nipples. She loweres her bra slowly, hesitatiing.
Before she can lower it to reveal her breasts, the Doctor grabs it and
walks over to the crate.
Rachel folds her arms in front of her. The Doctor unceremoniously
tosses the bra into the crate. He turns and walks back.

"The panties please!"

Rachel loweres her arms and reaches down to her panties, turning half
away as she tries to hide her nipples. The she realises that this just
gives him a profile view. Not wanting to show her rear as she bends to
drop the panties, she turns back to him, remaining bent over. As they
slide down, stretched between her shins, she can see that they do indeed
show a very noticable dark, wet stain.

The Doctor looks her up and down as she slowly lowers the panties and steps
out of them. He holds out his hand,and her idea of retaining them meets
the difficulty of explaining why they feel damp in her (and his) hands.
Better to just pretend. She holds them out and the Doctor takes them.

For a moment, he rubs the cloth between thumb and fingers, without comment
but most obviously gauging their wetness. Expressionless as if reading an
academic paper, he crumples them up in his hand and tosses them the six
feet towards the crate. They follow a trajectory that demonstrates their
significantly damp weight, and land (not flutter) perfectly in the crate
on top of the bra. He turns to look at her, the slightest of smiles
flickering under his distant professionalism.

Rachel stands there naked. Her right hand coveres her pubic hair and her
left hand coveres her right breast with her arm trying to cover her other
breast.

The Doctor ignores her and steps close to read the electronic display on
the side of the scales. He looks at the reading and walks over to the
desk. He writes on the paper. Looks up at her, and comments, as if on
her weight, or hairstyles, or the time of day. "Well, we're getting there
now. You have a quite pronounced libido, Miss Lake." He taps the pen tip
against his nose for a moment, observing her. She feels herself blushing,
up her neck and face, as her sex pulses demandingly in her belly.

He makes a "Hummm" sound, and carefully crosses a couple of checkboxes
on the form. "We don't see that very often." He looks up at her as she
continues to try to cover herself.  "Please step off the scales now."

Still trying to keep covered, Rachel steps off the scales.

"Please put your hands on top of your head so that I can complete the
examination."

Rachel slowly raises her arms and places them on her head.
She is quite lost for how to react, but if this is the end of the exam,
and that was his only comment on her shamefully obvious problem, then
perhaps she should just go on with this strange experience. Its going to
be a nuisance later, at home, this awful excitement that she is feeling.
Perhaps she'll have to take a sleeping pill to get to sleep tonight.
As she has sometimes had to in the past. And actually, a few times
more recently, she admits to herself.

"Stand up straight with your legs about twelve inches apart. That's good."

She has automatically done as he asks, no longer paying much attention.
The whole thing is so embarassing, she just can't wait to get out of
here. She is thinking more of whether this evening might be one of those
very rare times when she can't help herself, and gives in to her terrible
urges. She knows she won't be able to stop thinking about this exam,
and knows how outrageous her imagination can get sometimes. She'll
probably fabricate all sorts of bizarre events in her mind. Like now,
whats to stop him... she shudders, her sex clenching at the thought
of what he might do to her, standing legs-spread like this. She bites
her lip, trying to stay perfectly still. Tries to think of how much she
would despise herself the next morning. Sleeping pill, definately.

The Doctor moves closer. He walkes around her looking her over. "Good,
very good." he says.

He moves around in front of her and cuppes her left breast with his right
hand. He then uses his left hand to knead the breast and stroke her nipple.
He does this slowly for at least a minute before moving to her right breast
and repeating the process. By this time she is nearly panting and her
nipples have gone from hard, to stone. 'If he is checking for lumps, does
he think her nipples are lumps?' she thinks, suppressing a moan.

He then runs his hands down her front, caressing her waist, stomach and
hips before running his right hand between her legs. Her mind flares an
alarm, and she jerks her body involuntarily, with a "Huff!" of breath.
She feels his finger tips drag ever so lightly and briefly along between
her puffy... lips... and knows they come away very wet with her fluid.

He stands there for a moment, contemplating her as if she is a maths
problem, his thumb rubbing back and forth across glistening fingertips.
'Perhaps thinking of some hydraulics exercise', she wonders. 'Or perhaps'
wondering what kind of blistering nymphomaniac she is.'

With a slight "Hmpf" he steps behind her, wiping his fingers pointedly
on a pocket hankerchief. He squeezes her buttocks with both hands and
pulls then apart for a few seconds.
'At least she isn't wet there' she thinks, trying to fight down the sense
of shame and heat she feels.

He walks back in front of her and looks at her face. "Very well! Everything
seems to be more or less satisfactory. You have no tattoos, piercing or
evidence of needle punctures. Nothing else that would actually exclude
you. I think we can accept your donation. We are most grateful."

"Please move back to the cross and I will complete your pictures."

Rachel lowers her hands and walks over to face the camera, too shaky to
trust herself to speak. 'Its finished, thank heavens!' This time the
Doctor says "OK" and Rachel turns to her right. Another "OK" and Rachel
faces the screen. Yet another and Rachel faces the door.


"That's it!" the Doctor says. "That completes your examination. I am happy
to accept your donation on behalf of the University. Please go and sit down
and I will complete the formalities."

He walks over and writes a few more comments on the piece of paper. Ticks
a few boxes before signing and dating the document. He places the paper
in a file and slips it into his drawer.

Rachel watches as he goes to the crate and snaps on a press fit top. It
looks like it might be fairly hard to remove, and for the first time a
trace of real fear stirs in her mind. 'Time to get out of here' she thinks
determinedly, yet when she asks "Can I get my clothes back now?" she finds
her voice quavers uncertainly.

The Doctor ignores her question. "Your donation has been accepted. You
are now officially the property of the University." He announces, as if
congratulating her on her achievement.

He pickes up his telephone and dialls an internal number. "Hello. Fred?
I've finished processing another new lab rat. Can you and Jeff come and
collect it?" He laughed at something the other person said. "Yes, it is
the cutie you saw earlier. Have you anything better to do this weekend?"
He smiles and puts down the receiver.

"The guys will be here in a moment to take you down to the cages in the lab.
I'm afraid it will be a few days before we sit down and decide what the
best use of your body will be. It won't be until Monday that Admin can post
the pictures on our web-site and then we'll have to wait to see if there
is any interest from other establishments. If we get a good offer for you
we may decide to sell you. I'm interested in using you here but extra funding
is always welcome. Whatever happens your donation is very much appreciated."

Rachel stands up, astonished, intending to remonstrate with the Doctor, but
the door bursts open and the two young men enter and march quickly over to
Rachel. For a moment she is trying to cover her nakedness again, till one
of the men pulls her arms behind her and handcuffs her wrists. The other
picks up the crate from the desk.

"Let me go! What are you doing? LET ME GO!"

Fetching his jacket, the doctor looks back at her absentmindedly. "There
is also a more detailed baseline data set to be completed on you, as a
referent in your future use. Can take a few days, depending. The guys will
start that tomorrow morning. Grad students... weekends, you know. At least
you won't be bored at all. Some of the activities are quite lively, and the
Q&A sessions that used to be so tedious go much quicker now, with the lie
detector."

"Baseline...? Future use! What data!?"

"Oh, tsk, you really should have read the contract. Your background, fitness,
history of sexual experiences, cavity capacities, responsiveness, fantasies
and phobias, orgasmic profiling, preferences and aversions, body measurements
and mesh, management and instrumentation accessory fittings, you name it."
He beams at her, proudly, putting on his jacket. "We do pride ourselves on
the completeness of our experimental donor program, catering to a wide range
of research disciplines and commercial requirements."

The two men march the protesting Rachel out of the door. The Doctor follows
them out, switching off the light and locking his office. He turns and walks
away in the corridoor, the way she had come in. Naked, struggling in stunned
disbelief, she is frogmarched down the deserted passage in the other direction.

At the school front office, Keir pauses with Ms Pelton.
"Goodnight Ms Pelton. I'm off to the budgetary meetings at the ranch for the
weekend. Fred and Jeff can lock up down in the lab tonight. Will you be in
on the weekend? That one should be quite entertaining - high libido,
classic humiliation-arousal association, repressive self-denial complex,
if I'm not mistaken.  Nice form too. Its a certainty she'll go into one
of the sexuality leading edge programmes, no cosmetics testing for that one.
Consequently I've marked her down for the full range of S-parameter baseline
establishment proceedures. If you wish to assist."

"Well then, I expect I shall come in, Doctor. Goodnight."


                  ------- The End of Part One -------




