From Bronwyn.Collins@pi.csiro.au Thu Jun 21 16:55:45 2001
Date: Thu, 21 Jun 2001 15:16:56 +1000 (EST)
From: Bronwyn Collins <Bronwyn.Collins@pi.csiro.au>
To: predator@cat.org.au

Hey Bron...

>Hi Mike, just thought I'd drop you a line and tell you that Mary Eadie
>died.

Shit, yeah? 

>It was only when I was talking to Mike and Judy Lalor that I remembered
>that you guys had led a weekend together back in the Antioch days. 

Yes, we did, though I was in Sydney for most of the leadup. It's not
something I remember particularly distinctly. It was, what, a decade
ago, and I were a young, foolish and testosterone-sodden sapling (only 
the first of these traits is changing noticably). 

I had difficulty communicating with Mary. I lacked then the ears and the
words and the understandings of the human condition that I have now, but I
dont think the comms problem was entirely mine. I couldn't properly
understand her speech, if I remember correctly. If other people couldn't
understand my speech I'd be feeling pretty isolated and underappreciated
and not understood, obviously. But I never really knew her. So I cannot
claim to know, but that's my guess. Probably there was other stuff to
which I was not a party.

>She had only got married about 6 weeks ago and then killed herself last
>week. 

Geez. How? 

That's really upsetting. It's gonna really upset whoever she was married
to as well, obviously. Why so soon after getting married - did she think
it would solve something, only to find out it raised more questions than
it answered? I dunno. It makes me sad. 

>Probably due to oncoming depression again, but who can really know.

I don't know. But I have some background observations.

<rant>

It appears I live on a planet where there are two kinds of depression and
they both come under the same label. The first kind is one which arises as
an accident of hereditary biochemistry, for which none of us can be
blamed, and for which there might eventually be some sort of medical
treatment.

The other kind is what I'd consider a totally natural and correct reaction
to living in a society like ours, which is optimised for a very small
number of people, and makes for a needlessly bitter, depressing struggle
for a lot of others. The psych industry seems to prescribe the same pills
for the same symptoms, but for a lot of these cases I don't think the
people are necessarily sick. They're being given a chemical treatment for
a socially distributed disease - the solitude which comes from being a
single atom in an atomised society. 

There's not a lot of good literature I've found on the subject but it
sppears that the people who live in the few remaining pre-industrial
societies on earth tend not to get depressed (by our standards of being
depressed). People in some of these societies express amazement when white
western anthropologists inform them that here in white western capitalist
societies we let people starve whilst throwing away food, permit people to
freeze on the streets while paying security guards to keep empty buildings
empty, and thousands of us pay to live in buildings where we don't speak
to or often even recognise our own neighbors. I share their amazement.

Plus all the exposure we get to media commercials telling us we have to be
99% fat free and happy and beautiful and rich and rah rah rah. Immersed
in this guff it's hardly surprising if we feel terrible much of the time.

>Mum and I went to the funeral yesterday, all very sad.

Yeah. Suicide is a very brave act. Needless scorn is poured upon those who
commit it because it is really the most contemptuous message you can say
to your society - I'd rather be dead than live amongst you. We cannot
argue with the dead.

I've wondered, of those who kill themselves and left no explanation, is
this because they think it wouldn't matter what they said, nobody'd care -
isn't that probably a part of what drove them to kill themselves in the
first place?

</rant>

> This weekend I'm planning on doing something life-affirming. Need to
> remind myself how lucky I am to be alive, healthy and with lots of
> options ahead of me.

Wow. 

> So what are you up to?

Well, nothing particularly life affirming, this weekend, I'm sorry to
inform you. Just the sort of stuff I usually do. 

This weekend I am turning parts into computers for a course I'm giving at
cat in two weeks, and bottling my next batch of beer, and I'm attending
someone's housewarming in Petersham.  You may not want to be within my
low-level angst field if you're looking for life affirming vibes this
weekend, so as much as I'd love to, say, go camp under the stars on a
small beach with ya and wake up in a warm sleeping bag to the croaking of
what's left of Heathcote National Park's amphibious life (it will rain, of
course), I'm not up for it on such short notice. I am sorry. What a wuss I
have become.

I turned 30 and devolved into Marvin the Paranoid Android. The squat was
blitzed, as was our fallback squat (an excellent old pub in Pyrmont empty
for 18 years), so I am camped in the back room at my Oldies. 

I brew beer, mess with electronics, help maintain cat.org.au, watch my
self and my oldies get older and slowly degenerate (but I'm finally
getting to know Dad a lot better, with the help of a beer or two), read
lots of books and brood, mainly about what the hell am I doing with my
incredibly fortunate life, a life wherein I've been well fed, well
educated, well housed, and where I don't expect the army to break in and
abduct me in the middle of the night to answer for crimes against drain
security. It's a life which in my egotistical arrogance I expect a lot of
people would envy, and according so some theories I should be repaying
humanity this debt, going out and being a well-behaved dude, contributing
to society in some manner. I am not. The many bureaucratic, economically
rationalised games we are compelled to play are generally silly and I want
no part of most of them.

But then I reflect on what I'm deliberately not doing. I am deliberately
not enriching an unaccountable kleptocratic government with loads of
income taxes, and I keep my purchases of consumer junk to a minimum. I
keep myself dishevelled and reasonably poor. I chose this. It's no way to
attract mates, which leads me to understand why conservation is gradually
edited out of the gene pool in favour of rampant consumerism, which then
edits itself out for the usual resource depletion reasons. But I'd like to
think I'm *not* damaging the world as much as I am supposed to, not
helping to generate loads of useless stuff to go to landfill. It's an
achievement which I cannot point to, because it _isn't_ there. That's my
delusion anyway.

I've thought about patenting some stuff, and have come close to doing it
with a friend, we might do it this year. I am a critic of many of the
techniques used in this idea as implemented in other technologies (you've
seen the updated rant in http://cat.org.au/~predator/mol.html). I am a
critic of patents, since they are intrinsically anti-scientific, they stop
ideas being kicked around freely. We might give birth to one of those most
evil of legal fictions - a corporation. We will sell it our thoughts, for
which it will owe us the rights to control how they are used, if anyone
thinks them worthy of developing. It is a step into a pseudoreal world
where I tread with great trepidation. Parts of myself consider I have
become insane. Other parts consider I have long been insane but have only
woken up to it now. The wussy anarchist finally sells out. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

I step back and wonder if you're shaking your head yet. You emailed me a
simple query and got a mid-life crisis in response. A total failure of
nettiquette on my part, I think, and not something particularly affirming
of your life. Sorry about that. I really know very little about your life
or your thoughts, but this is remediable. I'm not in an authoritative
position to help you affirm it, other than perhaps by comparing it to
what I've done with mine 8-)

But I love many things about my life, and living things in general, and
the information systemic laws which underpin them all. I'm just being
blind to its marvelousness, temporarily. You had significant influence by
pointing me towards Mr Dawkins, also about a decade ago, so thanks for
that. Catch me in few days when the cantankerous neural net in which I
live has cooked up some serotonin and peptides associated with happiness,
and I might be better to talk to.



> Bronwyn

Cheeries...

<predator>
