EMPIRICISM, SEMANTICS, AND ONTOLOGY* 
RUDOLF CARNAP 

Revue Internationale de Philosophie 4 (1950): 20-40. Reprinted in the Supplement to Meaning and Necessity: A Study in Semantics and Modal Logic, enlarged edition (University of Chicago Press, 1956). 

1. THE PROBLEM OF ABSTRACT ENTITIES 

Empiricists are in general rather suspicious with respect to any kind of
abstract entities like properties, classes, relations, numbers,
propositions, etc. They usually feel much more in sympathy with
nominalists than with realists (in the medieval sense). As far as possible
they try to avoid any reference to abstract entities and to restrict
themselves to what is sometimes called a nominalistic language, i.e., one
not containing such references. However, within certain scientific
contexts it seems hardly possible to avoid them. In the case of
mathematics some empiricists try to find a way out by treating the whole
of mathematics as a mere calculus, a formal system for which no
interpretation is given, or can be given. Accordingly, the mathematician
is said to speak not about numbers, functions and infinite classes but
merely about meaningless symbols and formulas manipulated according to
given formal rules. In physics it is more difficult to shun the suspected
entities because the language of physics serves for the communication of
reports and predictions and hence cannot be taken as a mere calculus. A
physicist who is suspicious of abstract entities may perhaps try to
declare a certain part of the language of physics as uninterpreted and
uninterpretable, that part which refers to real numbers as space-time
coordinates or as values of physical magnitudes, to functions, limits,
etc. More probably he will just speak about all these things like anybody
else but with an uneasy conscience, like a man who in his everyday life
does with qualms many things which are not in accord with the high moral
principles he professes on Sundays. 

Recently the problem of abstract
entities has arisen again in connection with semantics, the theory of
meaning and truth. Some semanticists say that certain expressions
designate certain entities, and among these designated entities they
include not only concrete material things but also abstract entities e.g.,
properties as designated by predicates and propositions as designated by
sentences.1 Others object strongly to this procedure as violating the
basic principles of empiricism and leading back to a metaphysical ontology
of the Platonic kind.  It is the purpose of this article to clarify this
controversial issue. The nature and implications of the acceptance of a
language referring to abstract entities will first be discussed in
general; it will be shown that using such a language does not imply
embracing a Platonic ontology but is perfectly compatible with empiricism
and strictly scientific thinking. Then the special question of the role of
abstract entities in semantics will be discussed. It is hoped that the
clarification of the issue will be useful to those who would like to
accept abstract entities in their work in mathematics, physics, semantics,
or any other field; it may help them to overcome nominalistic scruples.

2. LINGUISTIC FRAMEWORKS

Are there properties classes, numbers, propositions? In order to
understand more clearly the nature of these and related problems, it is
above all necessary to recognize a fundamental distinction between two
kinds of questions concerning the existence or reality of entities. If
someone wishes to speak in his language about a new kind of entities, he
has to introduce a system of new ways of speaking, subject to new rules;
we shall call this procedure the construction of a linguistic framework
for the new entities in question. And now we must distinguish two kinds of
questions of existence: first, questions of the existence of certain
entities of the new kind within the framework; we call them internal
questions; and second, questions concerning the existence or reality of
the system of entities as a whole, called external questions. 

Internal
questions and possible answers to them are formulated with the help of the
new forms of expressions. The answers may be found either by purely
logical methods or by empirical methods, depending upon whether the
framework is a logical or a factual one. An external question is of a
problematic character which is in need of closer examination.  The world
of things. Let us consider as an example the simplest kind of entities
dealt with in the everyday language: the spatio-temporally ordered system
of observable things and events. Once we have accepted the thing language
with its framework for things, we can raise and answer internal questions,
e.g., "Is there a white piece of paper on my desk?" "Did King Arthur
actually live?", "Are unicorns and centaurs real or merely imaginary?" and
the like. These questions are to be answered by empirical investigations.
Results of observations are evaluated according to certain rules as
confirming or disconfirming evidence for possible answers. (This
evaluation is usually carried out, of course, as a matter of habit rather
than a deliberate, rational procedure. But it is possible, in a rational
reconstruction, to lay down explicit rules for the evaluation. This is one
of the main tasks of a pure, as distinguished from a psychological,
epistemology.) The concept of reality occurring in these internal
questions is an empirical scientific non-metaphysical concept. To
recognize something as a real thing or event means to succeed in
incorporating it into the system of things at a particular space-time
position so that it fits together with the other things as real, according
to the rules of the framework.  From these questions we must distinguish
the external question of the reality of the thing world itself. In
contrast to the former questions, this question is raised neither by the
man in the street nor by scientists, but only by philosophers. Realists
give an affirmative answer, subjective idealists a negative one, and the
controversy goes on for centuries without ever being solved. And it cannot
be solved because it is framed in a wrong way. To be real in the
scientific sense means to be an element of the system; hence this concept
cannot be meaningfully applied to the system itself. Those who raise the
question of the reality of the thing world itself have perhaps in mind not
a theoretical question as their formulation seems to suggest, but rather a
practical question, a matter of a practical decision concerning the
structure of our language. We have to make the choice whether or not to
accept and use the forms of expression in the framework in question.  In
the case of this particular example, there is usually no deliberate choice
because we all have accepted the thing language early in our lives as a
matter of course. Nevertheless, we may regard it as a matter of decision
in this sense: we are free to choose to continue using the thing language
or not; in the latter case we could restrict ourselves to a language of
sense data and other "phenomenal" entities, or construct an alternative to
the customary thing language with another structure, or, finally, we could
refrain from speaking. If someone decides to accept the thing language,
there is no objection against saying that he has accepted the world of
things. But this must not be interpreted as if it meant his acceptance of
a belief in the reality of the thing world; there is no such belief or
assertion or assumption, because it is not a theoretical question. To
accept the thing world means nothing more than to accept a certain form of
language, in other words, to accept rules for forming statements and for
testing accepting or rejecting them. The acceptance of the thing language
leads on the basis of observations made, also to the acceptance, belief,
and assertion of certain statements. But the thesis of the reality of the
thing world cannot be among these statements, because it cannot be
formulated in the thing language or, it seems, in any other theoretical
language.  The decision of accepting the thing language, although itself
not of a cognitive nature, will nevertheless usually be influenced by
theoretical knowledge, just like any other deliberate decision concerning
the acceptance of linguistic or other rules. The purposes for which the
language is intended to be used, for instance, the purpose of
communicating factual knowledge, will determine which factors arc relevant
for the decision. The efficiency, fruitfulness, and simplicity of the use
of the thing language may be among the decisive factors. And the questions
concerning these qualities are indeed of a theoretical nature. But these
questions cannot be identified with the question of realism. They are not
yes-no questions but questions of degree. The thing language in the
customary form works indeed with a high degree of efficiency for most
purposes of everyday life. This is a matter of fact, based upon the
content of our experiences. However, it would be wrong to describe this
situation by saying: "The fact of the efficiency of the thing language is
confirming evidence for the reality of the thing world; we should rather
say instead: "This fact makes it advisable to accept the thing language."  
The system of members. As an example of a system which is of a logical
rather than a factual nature let us take the system of natural numbers.
The framework for this system is constructed by introducing into the
language new expressions with suitable rules: (1) numerals like "five" and
sentence forms like "there are five books on the table"; (2) the general
term "number" for the new entities, and sentence forms like "five is a
number"; (3) expressions for properties of numbers (e.g. "odd," "prime"),
relations (e.g., "greater than") and functions (e.g. "plus"), and sentence
forms like "two plus three is five"; (4) numerical variables ("m," "n,"
etc.) and quantifiers for universal sentences ("for every n . . . ) and
existential sentences ("there is an n such that . . .") with the customary
deductive rules.  Here again there are internal questions, e.g., "Is there
a prime number greater than a hundred?" Here however the answers are found
not by empirical investigation based on observations but by logical
analysis based on the rules for the new expressions. Therefore the answers
are here analytic, i.e., logically true.  What is now the nature of the
philosophical question concerning the existence or reality of numbers? To
begin with, there is the internal question which together with the
affirmative answer, can be formulated in the new terms, say by "There are
numbers" or, more explicitly, "There is an n such that n is a number."
This statement follows from the analytic statement "five is a number" and
is therefore itself analytic. Moreover, it is rather trivial (in
contradistinction to a statement like "There is a prime number greater
than a million which is likewise analytic but far from trivial), because
it does not say more than that the new system is not empty; but this is
immediately seen from the rule which states that words like "five" are
substitutable for the new variables. Therefore nobody who meant the
question "Are there numbers?" in the internal sense would either assert or
even seriously consider a negative answer. This makes it plausible to
assume that those philosophers who treat the question of the existence of
numbers as a serious philosophical problem and offer lengthy arguments on
either side, do not have in mind the internal question. And indeed, if we
were to ask them: "Do you mean the question as to whether the framework of
numbers, if we were to accept it, would be found to be empty or not?" they
would probably reply: "Not at all; we mean a question prior to the
acceptance of the new framework." They might try to explain what they mean
by saying that it is a question of the ontological status of numbers; the
question whether or not numbers have a certain metaphysical characteristic
called reality (but a kind of ideal reality, different from the material
reality of the thing world) or subsistence or status of "independent
entities." Unfortunately, these philosophers have so far not given a
formulation of their question in terms of the common scientific language.
Therefore our judgment must be that they have not succeeded in giving to
the external question and to the possible answers any cognitive content.
Unless and until they supply a clear cognitive interpretation, we are
justified in our suspicion that their question is a pseudo-question, that
is, one disguised in the form of a theoretical question while in fact it
is a non-theoretical; in the present case it is the practical problem
whether or not to incorporate into the language the new linguistic forms
which constitute the framework of numbers.  The system of propositions.
New variables, "p," "q," etc., are introduced with a role to the effect
that any (declarative) sentence may be substituted for a variable of this
kind; this includes, in addition to the sentences of the original thing
language, also all general sentences with variables of any kind which may
have been introduced into the language. Further, the general term
"proposition" is introduced. "p is a proposition" may be defined by "p or
not p" (or by any other sentence form yielding only analytic sentences) .
Therefore every sentence of the form ". . . is a proposition" (where any
sentence may stand in the place of the dots) is analytic. This holds, for
example, for the sentence:  (a) Chicago is large is a proposition. (We
disregard here the fact that the rules of English grammar require not a
sentence but a that-clause as the subject of another sentence; accordingly
instead of (a) we should have to say "That Chicago is large is a
proposition.") Predicates may be admitted whose argument expressions are
sentences; these predicates may be either extensional (e.g. the customary
truth-functional connectives) or not (e.g. modal predicates like
"possible," "necessary," etc.). With the help of the new variables,
general sentences may be formed, e.g., (b) "For every p, either p or
not-p." (c) "There is a p such that p is not necessary and not-p is not
necessary." (d) "There is a p such that p is a proposition."  (c) and (d)
are internal assertions of existence. The statement "There are
propositions" may be meant in the sense of (d); in this case it is
analytic (since it follows from (a)) and even trivial. If, however, the
statement is meant in an external sense, then it is non-cognitive.  It is
important to notice that the system of rules for the linguistic
expressions of the propositional framework (of which only a few rules have
here been briefly indicated) is sufficient for the introduction of the
framework. Any further explanations as to the nature of the propositions
(i.e., the elements of the system indicated, the values of the variables
"p," "q ," etc.) are theoretically unnecessary because, if correct, they
follow from the rules. For example, are propositions mental events (as in
Russell's theory)? A look at the rules shows us that they arc not, because
otherwise existential statements would be of the form: "If the mental
state of the person in question fulfills such and such conditions, then
there is a p such that . . . ." The fact that no references to mental
conditions occur in existential statements (like (c), (d), etc.) shows
that propositions are not mental entities. Further, a statement of the
existence of linguistic entities (e.g., expressions, classes of
expressions, etc.) must contain a reference to a language. The fact that
no such reference occurs in the existential statements here, shows that
propositions are not linguistic entities. The fact that in these
statements no reference to a subject (an observer or knower) occurs
(nothing like: "There is a p which is necessary for Mr. X."), shows that
the propositions (and their properties, like necessity, etc.) are not
subjective. Although characterizations of these or similar kinds are,
strictly speaking, unnecessary, they may nevertheless be practically
useful. If they are given, they should be understood, not as ingredient
parts of the system, but merely as marginal notes with the purpose of
supplying to the reader helpful hints or convenient pictorial associations
which may make his learning of the use of the expressions easier than the
bare system of the rules would do. Such a characterization is analogous to
an extra-systematic explanation which a physicist sometimes gives to the
beginner. He might, for example, tell him to imagine the atoms of a gas as
small balls rushing around with great speed, or the electromagnetic field
and its oscillations as quasi-elastic tensions and vibrations in an ether.
In fact, however, all that can accurately be said about atoms or the field
is implicitly contained in the physical laws of the theories in question.2
The system of thing properties The thing language contains words like
"red," "hard," "stone," "house," etc., which we used for describing what
things are like. Now we may introduce new variables, say "f," "g," etc.,
for which those words are substitutable and furthermore the general term
"property." New rules are laid down which admit sentences like "Red is a
property," "Red is a color," "These two pieces of paper have at least one
color in common" (i.e., "There is an f such that f is a color, and . .
."). The last sentence is an internal assertion. It is an empirical,
factual nature. However, the external statement, the philosophical
statement of the reality of properties -- a special case of the thesis of
the reality of universals -- is devoid of cognitive content.  The system
of integers and rational numbers. Into a language containing the framework
of natural numbers we may introduce first the (positive and negative)
integers as relations among natural numbers and then the rational numbers
as relations among integers. This involves introducing new types of
variables, expressions substitutable for them, and the general terms
"integer" and "rational number."  The system of real numbers. On the basis
of the rational numbers, the real numbers may be introduced as classes of
a special kind (segments) of rational numbers (according to the method
developed by Dedekind and Frege). Here again a new type of variables is
introduced, expressions substitutable for them (e.g., "\/2" [square root
of 2]), and the general term "real number."  The spatio-temporal
coordinate system for physics. The new entities are the space-time points.
Each is an ordered quadruple of four real numbers, called its coordinates,
consisting of three spatial and one temporal coordinates. The physical
state of a spatio-temporal point or region is described either with the
help of qualitative predicates (e.g., "hot") or by ascribing numbers as
values of a physical magnitude (e.g., mass, temperature, and the like).
The step from the system of things (which does not contain space-time
points but only extended objects with spatial and temporal relations
between them) to the physical coordinate system is again a matter of
decision. Our choice of certain features, although itself not theoretical,
is suggested by theoretical knowledge, either logical or factual. For
example, the choice of real numbers rather than rational numbers or
integers as coordinates is not much influenced by the facts of experience
but mainly due to considerations of mathematical simplicity. The
restriction to rational coordinates would not be in conflict with any
experimental knowledge we have, because the result of any measurement is a
rational number. However, it would prevent the use of ordinary geometry
(which says, e.g., that the diagonal of a square with the side I has the
irrational value \/2) and thus lead to great complications. On the other
hand, the decision to use three rather than two or four spatial
coordinates is strongly suggested, but still not forced upon us, by the
result of common observations. If certain events allegedly observed in
spiritualistic seances, e.g., a ball moving out of a sealed box, were
confirmed beyond any reasonable doubt, it might seem advisable to use four
spatial coordinates. Internal questions are here, in general, empirical
questions to be answered by empirical investigations. On the other hand,
the external questions of the reality of physical space and physical time
are pseudo-questions. A question like: "Are there (really) space-time
points?" is ambiguous. It may be meant as an internal question; then the
affirmative answer is, of course, analytic and trivial. Or it may be meant
in the external sense: "Shall we introduce such and such forms into our
language?"; in this case it is not a theoretical but a practical question,
a matter of decision rather than assertion, and hence the proposed
formulation would be misleading. Or finally, it may be meant in the
following sense: "Are our experiences such that the use of the linguistic
forms in question will be expedient and fruitful?" This is a theoretical
question of a factual, empirical nature. But it concerns a matter of
degree; therefore a formulation in the form "real or not?" would be
inadequate.

3. WHAT DOES ACCEPTANCE OF A KIND OF ENTITIES MEAN?

Let us now summarize the essential characteristics of situations involving
the introduction of a new kind of entities, characteristics which are
common to the various examples outlined above.  The acceptance of a new
kind of entities is represented in the language by the introduction of a
framework of new forms of expressions to be used according to a new set of
rules. There may be new names for particular entities of the kind in
question; but some such names may already occur in the language before the
introduction of the new framework. (Thus, for example, the thing language
contains certainly words of the type of "blue" and "house" before the
framework of properties is introduced; and it may contain words like "ten"
in sentences of the form "I have ten fingers" before the framework of
numbers is introduced.) The latter fact shows that the occurrence of
constants of the type in question -- regarded as names of entities of the
new kind after the new framework is introduced -- is not a sure sign of
the acceptance of the new kind of entities. Therefore the introduction of
such constants is not to be regarded as an essential step in the
introduction of the framework. The two essential steps are rather the
following. First, the introduction of a general term, a predicate of
higher level, for the new kind of entities, permitting us to say for any
particular entity that it belongs to this kind (e.g., "Red is a property,"
"Five is a number"). Second, the introduction of variables of the new
type. The new entities are values of these variables; the constants (and
the closed compound expressions, if any) are substitutable for the
variables.3 With the help of the variables, general sentences concerning
the new entities can be formulated.  After the new forms are introduced
into the language, it is possible to formulate with their help internal
questions and possible answers to them. A question of this kind may be
either empirical or logical; accordingly a true answer is either factually
true or analytic.  From the internal questions we must clearly distinguish
external questions, i.e., philosophical questions concerning the existence
or reality of the total system of the new entities. Many philosophers
regard a question of this kind as an ontological question which must be
raised and answered before the introduction of the new language forms. The
latter introduction, they believe, is legitimate only if it can be
justified by an ontological insight supplying an affirmative answer to the
question of reality. In contrast to this view, we take the position that
the introduction of the new ways of speaking does not need any theoretical
justification because it does not imply any assertion of reality. We may
still speak (and have done so) of the "acceptance of the new entities"
since this form of speech is customary; but one must keep in mind that
this phrase does not mean for us anything more than acceptance of the new
framework, i.e., of the new linguistic forms. Above all, it must not be
interpreted as referring to an assumption, belief, or assertion of "the
reality of the entities." There is no such assertion. An alleged statement
of the reality of the system of entities is a pseudo-statement without
cognitive content. To be sure, we have to face at this point an important
question; but it is a practical, not a theoretical question; it is the
question of whether or not to accept the new linguistic forms. The
acceptance cannot be judged as being either true or false because it is
not an assertion. It can only be judged as being more or less expedient,
fruitful, conducive to the aim for which the language is intended.
Judgments of this kind supply the motivation for the decision of accepting
or rejecting the kind of entities.4 Thus it is clear that the acceptance
of a linguistic framework must not be regarded as implying a metaphysical
doctrine concerning the reality of the entities in question. It seems to
me due to a neglect of this important distinction that some contemporary
nominalists label the admission of variables of abstract types as
"Platonism."5 This is, to say the least, an extremely misleading
terminology. It leads to the absurd consequence, that the position of
everybody who accepts the language of physics with its real number
variables (as a language of communication, not merely as a calculus) would
be called Platonistic, even if he is a strict empiricist who rejects
Platonic metaphysics.  A brief historical remark may here be inserted. The
non-cognitive character of the questions which we have called here
external questions was recognized and emphasized already by the Vienna
Circle under the leadership of Moritz Schlick, the group from which the
movement of logical empiricism originated. Influenced by ideas of Ludwig
Wittgenstein, the Circle rejected both the thesis of the reality of the
external world and the thesis of its irreality as pseudo-statements;6 the
same was the case for both the thesis of the reality of universals
(abstract entities, in our present terminology) and the nominalistic
thesis that they are not real and that their alleged names are not names
of anything but merely flatus vocis. (It is obvious that the apparent
negation of a pseudo-statement must also be a pseudo-statement.) It is
therefore not correct to classify the members of the Vienna Circle as
nominalists, as is sometimes done. However, if we look at the basic
anti-metaphysical and pro-scientific attitude of most nominalists (and the
same holds for many materialists and realists in the modern sense),
disregarding their occasional pseudo-theoretical formulations, then it is,
of course, true to say that the Vienna Circle was much closer to those
philosophers than to their opponents.

4. ABSTRACT ENTITIES IN SEMANTICS

The problem of the legitimacy and the status of abstract entities has
recently again led to controversial discussions in connection with
semantics. In a semantical meaning analysis certain expressions in a
language are often said to designate (or name or denote or signify or
refer to) certain extra-linguistic entities.7 As long as physical things
or events (e.g., Chicago or Caesar's death) are taken as designata
(entities designated), no serious doubts arise. But strong objections have
been raised, especially by some empiricists, against empiricists, against
abstract entities as designata, e.g., against semantical statements of the
following kind:

(1) "The word 'red' designates a property of things";
(2) "The word 'color' designates a property of properties of things";
(3) "The word 'five' designates a number";
(4) "The word 'odd' designates a property of numbers";
(5) "The sentence 'Chicago is large' designates a proposition." 

Those who criticize these statements do not, of course, reject the use of
the expressions in question, like "red" or "five"; nor would they deny
that these expressions arc meaningful. But to be meaningful is not the
same as having a meaning in the sense of an entity designated. They reject
the belief, which they regard as implicitly presupposed by those
semantical statements, that to each expression of the types in question
(adjectives like "red," numerals like "five," etc.) there is a particular
real entity to which the expression stands in the relation of
designation). This belief is rejected as incompatible with the basic
principles of empiricism or of scientific thinking. Derogatory labels like
"Platonic realism" "hypostatization," or "'Fido'-Fido principle" are
attached to it. The latter is the name given by Gilbert Ryle8 to the
criticized belief, which, in his view, arises by a naive inference of
analogy: just as there is an entity well known to me, viz. my dog Fido,
which is designated by the name "Fido," thus there must be for every
meaningful expression a particular entity to which it stands in the
relation of designation or naming, i.e., the relation exemplified by
"Fido"-Fido. The belief criticized is thus a case of hypostatization,
i.e., of treating as names expressions which are not names. While "Fido"
is a name, expressions like "red," "five," etc., are said not to be names,
not to designate anything.  Our previous discussion concerning the
acceptance of frameworks enables us now to clarify the situation with
respect to abstract entities as designata. Let us take as an example the
statement:

(a) "'Five' designates a number."

The formulation of this statement presupposes that our language L contains
the forms of expressions which we have called the framework of numbers, in
particular, numerical variables and the general term "number." If L
contains these forms, the following is an analytic statement in L:

(b) "Five is a number."

Further, to make the statement (a) possible, L must contain an expression
like "designates" or "is a name of" for the semantical relation of
designation. If suitable rules for this term are laid down, the following
is likewise analytic:

(c) "'Five' designates five."

(Generally speaking, any expression of the form "'. . .' designates . . ."
is an analytic statement provided the term ". . ." is a constant in an
accepted framework. If the latter condition is not fulfilled, the
expression is not a statement.) Since (a) follows from (c) and (b), (a) is
likewise analytic.


Thus it is clear that if someone accepts the framework of numbers, then he
must acknowledge (c) and (b) and hence (a) as true statements. Generally
speaking, if someone accepts a framework for a certain kind of entities,
then he is bound to admit the entities as possible designata. Thus the
question of the admissibility of entities of a certain type or of abstract
entities in general as designata is reduced to the question of the
acceptability of the linguistic framework for those entities. Both the
nominalistic critics, who refuse the status of designators or names to
expressions like "red," "five," etc., because they deny the existence of
abstract entities, and the skeptics, who express doubts concerning the
existence and demand evidence for it, treat the question of existence as a
theoretical question. They do, of course, not mean the internal question;
the affirmative answer to this question is analytic and trivial and too
obvious for doubt or denial, as we have seen. Their doubts refer rather to
the system of entities itself; hence they mean the external question. They
believe that only after making sure that there really is a system of
entities of the kind in question are we justified in accepting the
framework by incorporating the linguistic forms into our language.
However, we have seen that the external question is not a theoretical
question but rather the practical question whether or not to accept those
linguistic forms. This acceptance is not in need of a theoretical
justification (except with respect to expediency and fruitfulness),
because it does not imply a belief or assertion. Ryle says that the
"Fido"-Fido principle is "a grotesque theory." Grotesque or not, Ryle is
wrong in calling it a theory. It is rather the practical decision to
accept certain frameworks. Maybe Ryle is historically right with respect
to those whom he mentions as previous representatives of the principle,
viz. John Stuart Mill, Frege, and Russell. If these philosophers regarded
the acceptance of a system of entities as a theory, an assertion, they
were victims of the same old, metaphysical confusion. But it is certainly
wrong to regard my semantical method as involving a belief in the reality
of abstract entities, since I reject a thesis of this kind as a
metaphysical pseudo-statement.

The critics of the use of abstract entities in semantics overlook the
fundamental difference between the acceptance of a system of entities and
an internal assertion, e.g., an assertion that there are elephants or
electrons or prime numbers greater than a million. Whoever makes an
internal assertion is certainly obliged to justify it by providing
evidence, empirical evidence in the case of electrons, logical proof in
the case of the prime numbers. The demand for a theoretical justification,
correct in the case of internal assertions, is sometimes wrongly applied
to the acceptance of a system of entities. Thus, for example, Ernest Nagel
in his review9 asks for "evidence relevant for affirming with warrant that
there are such entities as infinitesimals or propositions." He
characterizes the evidence required in these cases -- in distinction to
the empirical evidence in the case of electrons -- as "in the broad sense
logical and dialectical." Beyond this no hint is given as to what might be
regarded as relevant evidence. Some nominalists regard the acceptance of
abstract entities as a kind of superstition or myth, populating the world
with fictitious or at least dubious entities, analogous to the belief in
centaurs or demons. This shows again the confusion mentioned, because a
superstition or myth is a false (or dubious) internal statement.

Let us take as example the natural numbers as cardinal numbers, i.e., in
contexts like "Here are three books." The linguistic forms of the
framework of numbers, including variables and the general term "number,"
arc generally used in our common language of communication; and it is easy
to formulate explicit rules for their use. Thus the logical
characteristics of this framework are sufficiently clear while many
internal questions, i.e., arithmetical questions, are, of course, still
open). In spite of this, the controversy concerning the external question
of the ontological reality of the system of numbers continues. Suppose
that one philosopher says: "I believe that there are numbers as real
entities. This gives me the right to use the linguistic forms of the
numerical framework and to make semantical statements about numbers as
designata of numerals." His nominalistic opponent replies: "You are wrong;
there are no numbers. The numerals may still be used as meaningful
expressions. But they are not names, there are no entities designated by
them. Therefore the word "number" and numerical variables must not be used
(unless a way were found to introduce them as merely abbreviating devices,
a way of translating them into the nominalistic thing language)." I cannot
think of any possible evidence that would be regarded as relevant by both
philosophers, and therefore, if actually found, would decide the
controversy or at least make one of the opposite theses more probable than
the other. (To construe the numbers as classes or properties of the second
level, according to the Frege-Russell method, does, of course, not solve
the controversy, because the first philosopher would affirm and the second
deny the existence of the system of classes or properties of the second
level.) Therefore I feel compelled to regard the external question as a
pseudo-question, until both parties to the controversy offer a common
interpretation of the question as a cognitive question; this would involve
an indication of possible evidence regarded as relevant by both sides.

There is a particular kind of misinterpretation of the acceptance of
abstract entities in various fields of science and in semantics, that
needs to be cleared up. Certain early British empiricists (e.g., Berkeley
and Hume) denied the existence of abstract entities on the ground that
immediate experience presents us only with particulars, not with
universals, e.g., with this red patch, but not with Redness or
Color-in-General; with this scalene triangle, but not with Scalene
Triangularity or Triangularity-in-General. Only entities belonging to a
type of which examples were to be found within immediate experience could
be accepted as ultimate constituents of reality. Thus, according to this
way of thinking, the existence of abstract entities could be asserted only
if one could show either that some abstract entities fall within the
given, or that abstract entities can be defined in terms of the types of
entity which are given. Since these empiricists found no abstract entities
within the realm of sense-data, they either denied their existence, or
else made a futile attempt to define universals in terms of particulars.
Some contemporary philosophers, especially English philosophers following
Bertrand Russell, think in basically similar terms. They emphasize a
distinction between the data (that which is immediately given in
consciousness, e.g., sense-data, immediately past experiences, etc.) and
the constructs based on the data. Existence or reality is ascribed only to
the data; the constructs are not real entities; the corresponding
linguistic expressions are merely ways of speech not actually designating
anything (reminiscent of the nominalists' flatus vocis). We shall not
criticize here this general conception. (As far as it is a principle of
accepting certain entities and not accepting others, leaving aside any
ontological, phenomenalistic and nominalistic pseudo-statements, there
cannot be any theoretical objection to it.) But if this conception leads
to the view that other philosophers or scientists who accept abstract
entities thereby assert or imply their occurrence as immediate data, then
such a view must be rejected as a misinterpretation. References to
space-time points, the electromagnetic field, or electrons in physics, to
real or complex numbers and their functions in mathematics, to the
excitatory potential or unconscious complexes in psychology, to an
inflationary trend in economics, and the like, do not imply the assertion
that entities of these kinds occur as immediate data. And the same holds
for references to abstract entities as designata in semantics. Some of the
criticisms by English philosophers against such references give the
impression that, probably due to the misinterpretation just indicated,
they accuse the semanticist not so much of bad metaphysics (as some
nominalists would do) but of bad psychology. The fact that they regard a
semantical method involving abstract entities not merely as doubtful and
perhaps wrong, but as manifestly absurd, preposterous and grotesque, and
that they show a deep horror and indignation against this method, is
perhaps to be explained by a misinterpretation of the kind described. In
fact, of course, the semanticist does not in the least assert or imply
that the abstract entities to which he refers can be experienced as
immediately given either by sensation or by a kind of rational intuition.
An assertion of this kind would indeed be very dubious psychology. The
psychological question as to which kinds of entities do and which do not
occur as immediate data is entirely irrelevant for semantics, just as it
is for physics, mathematics, economic;, etc., with respect to the examples
mentioned above.10

5. CONCLUSION

For those who want to develop or use semantical methods, the decisive
question is not the alleged ontological question of the existence of
abstract entities but rather the question whether the rise of abstract
linguistic foms or, in technical terms, the use of variables beyond those
for things (or phenomenal data), is expedient and fruitful for the
purposes for which semantical analyses are made, viz. the analysis,
interpretation, clarification, or construction of languages of
communication, especially languages of science. This question is here
neither decided nor even discussed. It is not a question simply of yes or
no, but a matter of degree. Among those philosophers who have carried out
semantical analyses and thought about suitable tools for this work,
beginning with Plato and Aristotle and, in a more technical way on the
basis of modern logic, with C. S. Peirce and Frege, a great majority
accepted abstract entities. This does, of course, not prove the case.
After all, semantics in the technical sense is still in the initial phases
of its development, and we must be prepared for possible fundamental
changes in methods. Let us therefore admit that the nominalistic critics
may possibly be right. But if so, they will have to offer better arguments
than they have so far. Appeal to ontological insight will not carry much
weight. The critics will have to show that it is possible to construct a
semantical method which avoids all references to abstract entities and
achieves by simpler means essentially the same results as the other
methods.

The acceptance or rejection of abstract linguistic forms, just as the
acceptance or rejection of any other linguistic forms in any branch of
science, will finally be decided by their efficiency as instruments, the
ratio of the results achieved to the amount and complexity of the efforts
required. To decree dogmatic prohibitions of certain linguistic forms
instead of testing them by their success or failure in practical use, is
worse than futile; it is positively harmful because it may obstruct
scientific progress. The history of science shows examples of such
prohibitions based on prejudices deriving from religious, mythological,
metaphysical, or other irrational sources, which slowed up the
developments for shorter or longer periods of time. Let us learn from the
lessons of history. Let us grant to those who work in any special field of
investigation the freedom to use any form of expression which seems useful
to them; the work in the field will sooner or later lead to the
elimination of those forms which have no useful function. Let us be
cautious in making assertions and critical in examining them, but tolerant
in permitting linguistic forms.

Notes

* I have made here some minor changes in the formulations to the effect
that the term "framework" is now used only for the system of linguistic
expressions, and not for the system of the entities in question.

1 The terms "sentence" and "statement" are here used synonymously for
declarative (indicative propositional) sentences.

2 In my book Meaning and Necessity (Chicago, 1947) I have developed a
semantical method which takes propositions as entities designated by
sentences (more specifically, as intensions of sentences). In order to
facilitate the understanding of the systematic development, I added some
informal, extra-systematic explanations concerning the nature of
propositions. I said that the term "proposition" "is used neither for a
linguistic expression nor for a subjective, mental occurrence, but rather
for something objective that may or may not be exemplified in nature. . .
. . We apply the term 'proposition' to any entities of a certain logical
type, namely, those that may be expressed by (declarative) sentences in a
language" (p. 27). After some more detailed discussions concerning the
relation between propositions and facts, and the nature of false
propositions, I added: "It has been the purpose of the preceding remarks
to facilitate the understanding of our conception of propositions. If,
however, a reader should find these explanations more puzzling than
clarifying, or even unacceptable, he may disregard them" (p. 31) (that is,
disregard these extra-systematic explanations, not the whole theory of the
propositions as intensions of sentences, as one reviewer understood). In
spite of this warning, it seems that some of those readers who were
puzzled by the explanations, did not disregard them but thought that by
raising objections against them they could refute the theory. This is
analogous to the procedure of some laymen who by (correctly) criticizing
the ether picture or other visualizations of physical theories, thought
they had refuted those theories. Perhaps the discussions in the present
paper will help in clarifying the role of the system of linguistic rules
for the introduction of a framework for entities on the one hand, and that
of extra-systematic explanations concerning the nature of the entities on
the other.

3 W.V. Quine was the first to recognize the importance of the introduction
of variables as indicating the acceptance of entities. "The ontology to
which one's use of language commits him comprises simply the objects that
he treats as falling . . . within the range of values of his variables."
"Notes on Existence and Necessity," Journal of Philosophy, Vol. 40 (1943),
pp. 113-127; compare also his "Designation and Existence," Journal of
Philosophy, Vol. 36 (1939), pp. 702-709, and "On Universals," The Journal
of Symbolic Logic, Vol. 12 (1947), pp. 74-84.

4 For a closely related point of view on these questions see the detailed
discussions in Herbert Feigl, "Existential Hypotheses," Philosophy of
Science, 17 (1950), pp. 35-62.

5 Paul Bernays, "Sur le platonisme dans les mathematiques" (L'Enseignement
math., 34 (1935), 52-69). W.V. Quine, see previous footnote and a recent
paper "On What There Is," Review of Metaphysics, Vol 2 (1948), pp. 21-38.
Quine does not acknowledge the distinction which I emphasize above,
because according to his general conception there are no sharp boundary
lines between logical and factual truth, between questions of meaning and
questions of fact, between the acceptance of a language structure and the
acceptance of an assertion formulated in the language. This conception,
which seems to deviate considerably from customary ways of thinking, is
explained in his article "Semantics and Abstract Objects," Proceedings of
the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 80 (1951), 90-96. When Quine in
the article "On What There Is," classifies my logistic conception of
mathematics (derived from Frege and Russell) as "platonic realism" (p.
33), this is meant (according to a personal communication from him) not as
ascribing to me agreement with Plato's metaphysical doctrine of
universals, but merely as referring to the fact that I accept a language
of mathematics containing variables of higher levels. With respect to the
basic attitude to take in choosing a language form (an "ontology" in
Quine's terminology, which seems to me misleading), there appears now to
be agreement between us: "the obvious counsel is tolerance and an
experimental spirit" ("On What There Is," p. 38).

6 See Carnap, Scheinprobleme in der Philosophie; das Fremdpsychische und
der Realismusstreit, Berlin, 1928. Moritz Schlick, Positivismus und
Realismus, reprinted in Gesammelte Aufsatze, Wien, 1938.

7 See Introduction to Semantics (Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1942); Meaning
and Necessity (Chicago, 1947). The distinction I have drawn in the latter
book between the method of the name-relation and the method of intension
and extension is not essential for our present discussion. The term
"designation" is used in the present article in a neutral way; it may be
understood as referring to the name-relation or to the intension relation
or to the extension-relation or to any similar relations used in other
semantical methods.

8 Gilbert Ryle, "Meaning and Necessity," Philosophy, 24 (1949), 69-76.

9 Ernest Nagel, "Review of Meaning and Necessity," Journal of Philosophy,
45 (1948), 467-72.

10 Wilfrid Sellars ("Acquaintance and Description Again", in Journal of
Philosophy, 46 (1949), 496-504; see pp. 502 f,) analyzes clearly the roots
of the mistake "of taking the designation relation of semantic theory to
be a reconstruction of being present to an experience."

Transcribed into hypertext by Andrew Chrucky, Sept. 19, 1997.


