Cat minutes 3 feb 2003
Who is here: chris, jg, johng, savanna, johnhabs, igor, stuart, simon
and bo from the 8-track cartridge collective 8-)



Jabber:
-------
Several cat geek people on cat are now enrolled in jabber so cat geeks can
have talks in real time over the net. This is good 'cos there's windoz and
linux clients for it, and the stuff can be archived. It can be interfaced
with other kinds of IRC programs too.

windohz ME:
------------
I'm not sure why this came up 8-)

There exist still-shrinkwrapped versions of Windoze ME on the shelf here. 



IMC hardware/software.
----------------------
From the weekend workshop and days in advance:
Giffo and Habbs spend hours putting a standard version of debian install
on various machines around the place. Need to sort out mozilla so it can
run flash and javascripts.

gFTP had problems on the weekend but it did work when giffo and habbs
did the installs. 

Is it worth writing a script so that we just go from machine to machine
running the script so it speeds up apt-getting and standardising
installs? 

Sav is in the process of installing an apt-proxy  which will save on
bandwidth repeated downloadings.

Diesel really needs to become a local web server, Sav made some changes
which make diesel likely to be reachable from elsewhere.

THURSDAY 13th evening there'll be a geek-out fixing these bugs and doing
more install stuff.


MEMBERSHIP DB
--------------
Chris is still working on the membership database. Safa, Chris, jJ and
andy are in the process of getting this working. 

To get the list of the user accounts we would probably rip all the names
out of the /etc/passwd file and then we can correlate who is on the
system with what is in the membership database.

Leah's post was a good call. Catkore needs to be used to inform the
users about changes to the system; maybe instead we should have a static
page, not far off the main page, which informs users about stuff on it
about recently changed. 



Reflect
--------
Doesn't. This is a bad thing. Maybe we should fix it?
There were 3 reasons we got a mirror: security, reducing bandwidth skew
for alpha, and reducing bandwidth costs at TWS. It has the additional
benefit of being able to take web page requests when/if we move our web
server.


PROPOSAL
--------
DNS changes to ollie need to be made, and an alias which means reflect
points to conway for the meantime so pages actually get served.


Courses feedback!
-----------------
Giffo reckons it went pretty well. 6 ppl showed, 4 didn't. 
Pink worked pretty well even though there were login weirdnesses.
John August had gFTP-related and server non-servitude and some other
difficulties but got it to work eventually, and thinks the serve should
happen off a local box. The take-up was very good considering it was
only advertised for a couple of weeks.
Giffo reckons the PHP stuff is really likely to be a good sustainer for
cat in the coming years.


Bux
----
We have a visa debit card with our credit union, unicom. Next step is to
integrate this with paymate. The costs associated with being a merchant
facility are somewhat prohibitive. Giffo mentions that he thinks we best
avoid credit cards if possible.

The kashflow stich is OK. We paid a bunch of stuff to alpha for bandwidth.
We signed over to TPG (they charged us a hundred bux for the privelage of
configuring our account to what we wanted, cos they set it up wrong
initially we think, but we can't prove it since the IMP mails jJ sent them
didn't get saved) so DSL is working properly now. We're not sure that the
bill has settled down yet.

The cat (im?) balance is about $300 in the black.



DNS
----
The dudes are still in the process of sorting out our registry
stuff but we edge ever closer. There's additional issues associated with
wether or not we should route cat's IP numbers through 


Broken IPAC
------------
IP ACcounting is broken on conway. Not sure how this happened, we think
it broke during the last upgrade. This really needs to be made
functional again. Pred thinks he's up for a kernel compile.



MPI
----
Igor came along to ask about hosting an indonesian anarcho collective.
They got kicked off geocities, not sure why, it sucked anyway cos it
had popups. The dudes need to do the usual stuff, read the charter and 
abide by it. Their site is not huge.

The MPI, Mineral Policy Institute, do campaigns about rapacious mining
companies. The MPI has some big acrobat pages which would be sucked down
by robots, etc; they have about 50Mb of stuff. They move about 5.5Gb a
month, too much additional, given that alpha.net are not too happy with
the ul/dl ratio and they are recently pissed off with our rudeness and
also that we served uh, 25Gb last month, so that'll have 2.5Gb incoming
added bandwidth bill. Naughteee,
most of that (55%) was brisbane indymedia! Check
http://cat.org.au/cat/analog/all-2003-feb or something like it.

Gotta make the pictures smaller. /var/www/ uploads brisbane IMC is 127Mb.
http://lists.cat.org.au/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/imc-brisbane

upgrades 
------------
Habs notices the longer the interval between upgrades, the more broken
the system gets when you do them. Sav has a cron job which updates nightly
for the deb stable version, and this generally gets the nice security
upgrades. Maybe we should cron an upgrade every week, or month or 3
months? Is there an upgrade to do only security patches? Yes (edit the
sources.list). ipchains ->iptables broke IPAC.

Once we get DNS stabilised, we should get cron-jobbed apt-get updates
sorted out.


organarchy 0wn3d
-----------------
we got cracked (naughty naughty, must upgrade... couldnt upgrade
due to non-aptness of the broken package). Fixing involves downloading
the new code for bulletin board phpbb. Need to ask kol if he still wants
the bulletin board, in which case we dl the new patched code and run it.
Else we keep it locked.



chop chop
----------

Liam came down and told the TWS crew to disconnect cat from their LAN or
they'd get cut off at 4pm. I chopped the page to remove the threat I
percieved to cat's routing.

We're heard nothing from Kol, who is the dude whose account the pages
are on.

This was mainly about discourteous dealing with complaints, not the
thing about the link being a pointer to a warez site.

There was no warez hosted anywhere on the cat infrastructure. 

Liam feels that the only way to get cat's attention is to threten us
with disconnection. Which is pretty touchy!

We're apparently a bit of a drain on their bux


Should we have links to warez sites?
-------------------------------------
There was a lot of quite intelligent discussion on this topic.


We're thinking that since making proprietary code freely available helps
to make people dependant on payware proprietary OSs in order to run
the cracked warez. This means they stay away from making the transition to
free software.

It's currently down. The owner of the page doesnt seem to care, has not
responded to any emails yet. Our upstream ISP didn't care about it, they
only got upset at our discourtesy to the complainant, which is a different
issue (but an important one).

We're up for re-animating the page but with the warez links commented
out. We'll keep it down for the time being and wait for kol to have a say.


Maybe the dude will relocate the page elsewhere, like geocities?

alpha.not.au
----------------
liam thinks alpha is losing $ with cat on the tws account.
he thinks cat is an ISP, effectively a competitor.
we think this is not sustainable.
maybe we should leave and go to TPG, 

techex.com.au $460/month UL at 128k .. massive $
maybe overseas hosting?


Next meeting
March Monday 3rd 7:30pm


