-----------------gratuitous-bandwidth-munching-line-here-------------------
File: cat minutes October 2002 txt
Who: Evan (TWS) Hugh Giffo RosieX Andy Chris Safari Megan John (TWS) JJ
Blame: predator for the minutes if you must but it will improve nothing 8-)
Blame: contains rants, bad humour and author self-aggrandisement
Blame: TISM are playing in the background as I finish this document.
-----------------gratuitous-bandwidth-munching-line-here-------------------

Agenda stuff, in no particular order with respect to the actual paragraphs:

bandwidth/mirror
alpha deal
mailing list 
cat donations
the almighty pile of caaaaash/ reason we all get out of bed in the morn, not
IMC Hardware/mekanarchy 
WTO
/var
flame warz
mardi gras
tenure
indymedia/electrofringe
workshops
request processing
AGM 
Sudo
hasslebot 

-----------------gratuitous-bandwidth-munching-line-here-------------------
Hasslebot: for next month is Hugh 
---------------------------------


Indymedia/electrofringe!
--------------------
Conway hosted thisisnotart for a while 'cos the original server was
getting blasted by too many hits and crashed. Praccus did the setup.
Kudos to the ultrafast responders on this whoever you were.

Some cat people, Nic, Andrew and Ingrid from Melb, Francesca from
Adelaide, Simon from Tassie, showed up at electrofringe. Tassie merged
active and indymedia. Melbourne is really pissing people off, in the
Herald-Sun (etc) and some people employed in the corporate media have been
sacked from their paid employ in that industry, for their involvement in
free media (is this a blessing or a curse? I don't know. I speak from
experience here - nobody can sack you when you're unemployed already, if
that's not job security I don't know what is).

I can't overcome the feeling some of Cat is a little laid back about
electrofringe... Andy slept through the Indymedia presentation he was
supposed to make in Newcastle... I'll finally arrive there one week after
Electrofringe has ended, how laid back is that? Bloody anarchosyndicalists.
Um, other stuff was mentioned so fast I didn't type it in. Sorry.

Dudes... whoever's been working on the Sydney Indy skin, good effort, it
is SO much nicer now, I know less and less about haaretzdaily and Israel
every day!

Tassie's wild spaces event is happening the week after the noWTO stuff,
Simon would like it if we could cook a cdrom of video footage and send it
to him overnight. Hmmm... anyone got other stuff to say here? Please put
it in.


bandwidth/mirror
-----------------
Rumble's London server setup process has started to roll... 500Mb of disk
and no bandwidth cost, rsync'd from pink to the mirror when it eventually
runs. Chris reckons it might happen in the next month and has been
conducting obscene experiments on rsync config in order to get it all to
work. I can hear the script screaming, screaming... bwahahahaha! After the
magic he worked on the run-backup I feel pretty sure it will eventually
work. Oh yeah, all the backups are current and happy, even tho we lost
some when the old /hdd died. 

Alpha are now gonna charge us less than 19.5 c per meg incoming. Giffo
told them they'd go on ADSL , but alpha said, stay where you are and we'll
just change the rates. $100 for the first 500Mb ($200 for the first gig of
which TWS gets half), 8.5 cents per meg after that, per month. I actually
saw this in writing on Tuesday after the cat meeting, from the hands of
Lee. Cool. Apparently Alpha reckon they're losing money on this deal. 

The tao.ca mirror needs password access again. Once this happens the
mailing list archives could be mirrored there. Was it Jesse Hirsch in
Canada who needed to be pleaded with about this?  Does anyone have extra
energy to do this? I think they know about what sort of barrel we're
staring down in the coming month.


buk$z
----------
Cat currently haz: about 800 bux. Some of which are spoken for, and some
of which come from recent funky donations from andy and jj for paid work
they did in recent weeks, good onya dudes!

We're trying to untangle the payments to Alpha via TWS, progress is being
made. Some money orders were involved. Also there was a credit involving
Dave Wanless credits (about 200-250 bux?).. again, deep surgery is being
undergone to bring it to some sort of understanding.

The telstra permanent modem thingie is costing us (jj rapidly readys the
numbers) $147, $217 $111 $243 approx $180 per month. It's slow and thrashy
and we pull down about a gig a month very slowly at 19.5cents per. Which
brings us toooo....


D$L  (contains long rant)
----
Megan pred chris andy and several other people have had a crack
at dhcp subnetting and IPAC config for the mekanarchy router. It has not
proven successful though lots of good stuff came out of the process:

-we learned we could roll our own DSL router (thereby save $400 bux,
 recycle old hardware, get total control over what's running on it etc)
-mek got a free DSL router and they love us for it!
-we learned it was ugly to tweak it but got to watch Megan flex her geek
 muscles playing with its e-smith/redhat mutant non-debian configuration
-we got to play "stuff the backplane with NICs and observe blinkie lites"

I posted a despair-o-gram the other day about it.

It makes good sense to get our own DSL since we wont be eating Mek's DSL
link for them, and won't have to get into args about cash with them, since
it has been revealed some people with .mp3 addictions have jacked their
bill up rather a lot of late (circa 800 bux). 

The Mek experience has proven pretty instructive. We can roll our own
router. Someone sed some months back our incoming lines are OK for DSL.

The ethernet/DSL modem is something which we would pay $350 for
HarrisTechnology moves equivalent Dlink items for $320. We get to keep it
so if we have to move, we still own it.

We hadda look to get them for less, which one can if one looks at Ebay...
but Megan and I bemusedly suspect some of these items are going for-cheap
because their previous owners are cretins who have probably mangled the
hardware trying to install it so it might be better to just get one new:

"I'm selling this 'cos the PCI socket on my motherboard broke when I was
trying to install it so I got a USB one" <- this is a genuine comment from
someone flogging a PCI DSL modem.

//cut to explanatory scene of drooling dufus with hammer, forcing the card
into its slot, smack, smack, smack geez duh it won't fit, uh, how'd that
PCI slot get fractured like that? We later figured out the picture
provided was not an authentic pic of the card up for auction but was
pinched off D-Link's website. Caveat maximus emptor!//
 
We can use DSL and phone line on the same line so things like PIMP and
voice are still a goer, we might need a splitter/filter to pull this trick
off. Woohoo, static IP means we can route our own 203.57.122 numbers off
it. Cool!

Maybe ppp dialin should, as it was long-ago proposed, be moved to conway
or avatar or something?

ACTION: andy, pred... DNS wants to be moved off ollie and stuck on conway.
I guess this means conway becomes aliased as 203.57.122.1, avatar has to 
route that network. What happens to Ollie's connection in the meantime?

(Yay andy, or whoever did it, for getting the aunic registry password at
long last) 

Pred'll roll a router but does not guarantee any knowledge about how to
make it do dialin (see previous paragraph for dialup configuration
buck-pass)

Someone got a credit card? TPG demand it but I suspect we can do kaash if
we have to. Legal tender .. it's not just a good idea, it's the law (which
is why the govt prints so much of it, robbing you of purchasing power
without you even knowing it by the magic of inflation).


Flame warz!
-----------
Wow, you napalm-sprayers are really much more genteel in meatspace,
emitting fire-retardant vibes and cheezy sheepish grins, and for this, I
thank you.


Donations
----------
It would be great to streamline this. It would be possibly useful to jack
up the group donation rate but this would probably be a step down the
slippery slope of "we're a cheap ISP" tho on the other hand, we're
probably worth it, it'd be the first increase in 5 years. Some schemes
have been proposed that in order to get service at cat people have to
donate hardware and skills (money is very impersonal, and is also taxed
when spent, whereas skillsharing involves community building, which money
transactions tend to inhibit).

ACTiON POINT: hugh is gonna list the current list of hosted sites on cat
ACTION POINT: Raise group suggested donation rates
ACTION POINT: to 20:40:80 bux (also to be posted on website) 
ACTION POINT: suggest people can donate hardware, skills, other than $

The donations database is still broken. Maybe we should dump it and go to
pen and paper? There's problems in the underlying database (donations are
based on period-of-time, so when there's one-offs this becomes wrong).
The underlying DB needs changing. The new one is being developed on Pink.
Reha has created the schema so a fair bit of the required work is pretty
much done.

Workshops
----------
We havent run any and haven't planned any.  Jj wants to run a
how-to-upload workshop. Evan and John are considering doing one about
server installs (I think the Squelchy content-management server install
experience was a winner). Andy would consider doing one in the summer,
maybe Jan/Feb The easiest way to run these things is whole-day.

The last of the low-gutz machines are still being replaced. Icewm is a
pretty lightweight GUI for resource strapped machines, and windowzy so the
GUI-fear issue goes away. John from TWS has a roll-his-own cd for fast
lightweight installs of linux. Oooh we'd love to inflict him on blob (fast
guts) and Alan (slow guts yet to be replaced). Pred still refuses to fix
windohs machines unless this involves putting Linux on them.


Tenure <contains boring crap, insanity and unsubstantiated delusions>
------
Will clarify itself on Friday 11 Oct. The aggreived quasi-leaseholder has
presented FOE (of which I am also a member) with an itemised bill for
(2.9000x10^4) dollars (exactly, too!) for services never
apparently transacted, and for which no invoices were apparently ever
written or delivered; I, in my capacity as fiscal management retard, legal
ignoramus and propagator of meaningless rumours, think the schedule of
fees thereon is non-adherent to reality, and could readily be proven to be
cooked, if anyone was bothered to do so (the relevant fraud-detecting
mathematical tool is Benford's Law, if anyone's bothered to know, see the
Code Snippets section in http://cat.org.au/~predator/ for some C code
describing it for an N-symbol system). That such an audacious claim was
made against FoE suggests to my paranoid little head, that others like it 
will be made against any other persons or organisations deemed tactically
targetable. 

Please keep an eye on the option to do the jump to somewhere else, it
wouldn't have been the first time. My spider-sense tells me things will
get exponentially ugly, and whoever can be roped in will be... I am
watching this roping-in process as it unfolds in real time. Yuck.


WTO
------
RosieX addressed this item; Seanz Szcullion is involved in a wto media
collective, which is now a direct action collective. It is hoped the
Turella space is open for the 3 weeks before N15 (access logistics need
handling, etc). Is there any facility for capturing video? Training nights
for vid capture (etc) are planned for coming a thursday night, 17th Oct
2002. See also nowto.cat.org.au 

Mardi Gras
----------
Nathanwi doesnt want a site, he wants info about what stuff to run on his
site. As of Tues 8th, some kind cat person has replied to the dude.

List requests
-------------
A while ago Alpha complained to me, and I complained to catgeek, that
conway was spamming the rest of the world. This is not 'cos of open
relays, it's because spam bots subscribe to or post to lists on cat and
conway is on alpha's address space. It is very rude if we get alpha
black-holed. So we're gradually ditching majordomo, moving things over to
mailman, apply spamassassin (so we dont have to look at it) and blocking
autosubscribe, and also making it so that nonmembers can't post to
lists. Six lists have been left open, cos their admins have yet to arrange
alternative administration. List admins are really gonna have to maintain
their lists. It would help a lot if there was a handy CLI tool to
unsubscribe spamrobots. Good onya anyone who has closed holes!

/var
-----
Is now 4,100 Mb bigger and will not fill up for a while. Conway was down
for about 65 mins (just over the estimate) on Tues while the relevant
3.5Gb was transferred from drive to drive.

Offshore
---------
nowto woulda possibla be betta offashore because da costa haircare
products is justa too mucha. Go, go, mirrorheads.

Sudo
----
Sudo acquisition was proposed for Megan. Pred thinks it's an OK
idea. Someone seconded, so megan's now a superuser, welcome to the crew!

Safa's now implemented two layers of sudo. One is for list admin (Hugh and
Leia have this level of sudo) and the other is full-strength go-everywhere
sudo. Some people from octapod and spinach have sudo access for secondary
DNS allocation reasons. Mumble mumble.


Request processing
------------------
The cat ToDo thingie is obviously not working
rt.cat.org.au is the cat request tracker. Also mumble, something else,
mumble. Sorry. Facilitator??!


AGM (abnormal general meeting)
---
Get lots of people in cat together (major back slapping session).
Sun 15th Dec. Time to be announced.


--------------------------
Next meeting monday Nov 4 
-------------------------







































"Come on Pommie, patronise me with RollsRoyce, Westminster Abbey and 
 and the British do it Best... I hope you all drown in dog food." 

-`The English Speaking Peoples' 1983 ... TISM -Best Off


-----------------gratuitous-bandwidth-munching-line-here-------------------

