Cat minutes sep 2002
present: jj glen chris predator dave giffo savanna moz (late)

Good to see ya back jj!

No bones about it, my minutes really suck. I apologise.
If anyone thinks topics weren't addressed, please add them in.



Workshops
--------------------------------------
Should we continue doing these? Attendance for the linforwin and portals
ones was zero. The php ones are going OK, but not well attended. Hardware
seems to go pretty well. The number of working machines is
inadequate. Giffo would be prepared to do those courses with 5 people, but
less is a bit of a waste. 

The catskills password will now normally be changed after the workshops:
if people want to use the stuff after the course, they have to be members
(useful incentive to join). 

JJ is still keen to do an audio one (note, most machines would need to
have sound hardware added (not hard) and configured (ow).

Giffo thinks maybe, we're trying to run too many courses too close
together. Moz reckons the keen people will sign up to the course lists.
Sav's been doing great work on the organisation of these things.

ACTION: we need to remove the workshop link from the top of the
active.org.au page

Payments: internet banking stuff is still proving difficult.
It might be possible to implement COD?
Maybe PayPal or bank cheque or postal order would be good?
JJ's gonna liase with the relevant groups to figure out which is the most
tractable method.


SIGNATORIES.
---------------
Our credit union, unicom, thought jj was the only signatory on the cat
account. Unicom apparently lost the papers. Andy and jj have been writing
cheques. The only way we can look at our balances is for a single person
to know the account password.... which is totally at odds with our
collective structure and means one person can potentially scarper with the
collective's cash. 

If anyone knows a community group who knows a credit union which supports
our sort of financial needs, then we'd love to hear it. Moz has been
through a world of hurt with Pestwak and ANZ which probably rules them
out.



Mekanarchy
--------------
Ip accounting is being made to work, slowly (thanks megan, thanks chris!)
on the mekanarchy router.

The usage on ollie is pretty large (1000Mb download a month!), is it known
to be correct? We can assume this will show up on mekanarchy when we
change the LAN to mekanarchy. IF we don't jsut get our own DSL service,
that is.

Hugh and Pred's agreement with mekanarchy is still being hammered out.
As stands we're still not using the wire, tho it's ready to go.



Bandwidth and bills (a very long rant, this was the condensed version)
-----------------------
Maybe to lower the outgoing size of stuff, we gz things? mod_gzip.
We should probably be on the lookout for better deals for hosting the
servers?
How about vservers? When is <whoever> going to implement the mirror
(which really truly goes in Feb 2003)?
Would it be a good idea to put active.org.au in the Uk?
Spews.org has some good spamfiltering technology which would chop down
some of our bill too (savanna posted a good rant about this)

Giffo: running active.org is really cat's core activity, and moving it
onto other servers we don't own is not a good idea. Nevertheless we need a
better deal. It is in cat's interest to find cat a better deal.

It appears that cat and tws are paying much more than a typical alpha DSL
customer. 

TPG do a deal called  Metro : v1500  deal:
download 1.5Mbit, 256kbit/sec upload speed, we get a static IP number  
$60 a month, 15.9c per meg 500Mb download, thereafter 5c per meg.
No mention of total served content limit.
Can be installed at Turella?

We need to determine that whoever we're gonna get DSL off is happy to
handle our significant serving. Maybe they will be, since most of the
no-server policy stuff is there to stop gamers, scriptkids and leechers
from doing it. Giffo and andy are investigating the deal.

Action: approach alpha concerning our bill.
(note: andy, giffo, pred and Leah did this Wednesday but Liam wasn't
there).



Time-soak web requests
-----------------------
Maybe we should stop saying yes to any more requests until we
have all this stuff sorted out, hence default to no.
Rhodes, Thanh and the Murdoch Uni people's new stuff needs sorting, mainly
permissions, membership database entries, etc.


Dodgy boxes
-------------------
We need the boxes to work:
ssh to ollie, conway pink and everywhere else.
ftp scp 
gimp
mozilla
notepad-equivalent
shells
net axs.

Pred scored a load of new motherboards (old pent-233s, AT form
factor with ram CPU and graphics card) which will supercede some old
boxes. They all work, have 32Mb of 168 pin ram, and have CPU on them.
The libranet box (donated by John August) has been wiped and now has
WOODY. Needs some GUI tweaking but not too much.

Disk quotas:
-------------
not a perfect solution.
Some sites (eg mine,) extremely exceed the 1.5Mb web stuff limit ... mine
is 283Mb of compressed graphics, but then, they aren't called that often.
Was hoped to be instituted because /var occasionally got eaten
Better solution is to add bigger disks, and swap some smaller ones out,
and move some partitions around to bigger partitions on the newer (primary
slave) harddisk. /hda has now been running since early 1999. There are
some big fat sql log files which I also compressed on tues night (mainly
virtual palestine and some apache logging stuff) which  really should be
logrotated to oblivion. Andy moved a pile of his old mail and source off
/home this week too, saving us half a gig or more of disk space.

Big wins
----------
Backups:
Chris has managed to get the nightly and weekly incremental backups (which
are pretty big) to fit on the /spare partition. This has been broken for
some months. How it was achieved was, some stuff is now excluded from
backup (cos it's mirrored elsewhere or someone else has a copy of it
offsite), /home is done separately and we also use a more efficient 
compression algorithm than we used to.

TWS: andy and pred changed the router/firewall/gateway box at TWS so now
TWS's LAN doesn't get slowed down by carrying our traffic... it has
three network cards in it and its own cute little internal hub. Also got a
cdrom burner working (for a while) there. These new no-frills blank 
CD's are a bastard, I tried to burn an image on one for ten minutes
until andy started laughing and pointed at the cd, saying it was 
umop apisdn                      <--- invert head to read this
                        

Woody: andy cooked up the 7 cdrom edition of Woody (latest debian distro)
and burned it to Moz's blank cdroms. We have a copy in catspace.

Uptimes: Pink, conway, and treehugger have all not crashed for 3 months,
tho they have gone down when we told them to shut down. This is GOOD!
Ollie is a slightly more flaky box but it has a flaky old harddisk in it,
which occasionally locks up when I mount it. Otherwise it's been fine too.

DNS: andy and pred did some preliminary work about moving the DNS entries
and changing the routes, there's some password stuff needing to be sorted
before DNS can be moved to conway. It'll probably end up being moved to
conway then conway gets moved to talk to TPG... yet to be sorted.

CAT AGM
----------
30 Nov Tentatively at Turella Ice Cream factory 


Next cat meeting
----------------
First monday is October 7th.




Cheeries....

<predator>
