Cat minutes Mon Dec 2 2002

{Sorry these minutes are so late - I'm mid eviction again and we had all
sorts of stuff happen to the cat servers during the electricity grid
schizo-weirdness while the bushfires were on this week, which needed
priority fixup. And I should not have had so many strawberry daquiris at
Evan's party last night, oooh}

Present: John Hab, Simon, Giffo, <pred>, Mozza, Leah, JJ, Salva, Miklos

Apologia from Megan and Andy

My minutes are not great, nor are they cast in stone. Caveat emptor.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------



Bandwidth/mirror;
------------------------
It's mostly working so data getting fed out is costing us
less (ie, less incoming requests for more html page fragments).
However this might have gone wonky when pink.cat (Is this the machine
doing the rsync to the UK server?) became comatose this week. Pink will
need filesystem-fixups soon.

Moz said he'd install modgzip on conway, which sends compressed HTML to
browsers which ask for our pages - making better use of the bandwidth =
cheaper to serve pages. Lots of stuff on cat has been gzipped but we can't
look at until the modgzip doodad goes in.

There were some murmerings about the public list archiving stuff not
working, too (mhonarc if I remember correctly?) Any takes on fixing this?

Due to not getting DSL on and DNS moved to conway yet, we're still paying
for a Telstra permananet modem connection, two phone lines at turella and
one at TWS (which makes PIMP work). Andy and I chatted and came to the
conclusion that the step sequence will be:

1) aDSL is turned on at Turella (dialin will still work).
2) DNS is moved to conway 
3) telstra permanent modem is retired (woohoo, bandwidth savings)
4) ollie uses the DSL rig as a gateway


Loadsharing
---------------
Ghosh, is it just me or does the total geek load seem to be unevenly
distributed? Is this because the main people who do stuff are just being a
bit greedy for things to do (you know, hardware wise I love doing stuff
and just can't stay away, but software wise I am cretinous and feel it's 
better to stay away then trash the system, but then stuff stays broken
for yonks if I don't have a hit at it), or because active geeks 
attract more jobs by virtue of being known for their free donation of  
geekly time, inclination and skills?

I do feel a bit unsupported at times on catgeek, when I ask the
ten-millionth question about why <something on cat is broken> and nobody
chimes in with any ideas on how to fix it (Marty, who is not actually in
cat, has been a notable exception to this) - maybe this is 'cos people
don't have clues, or perhaps they've accumulated blindness to my postings,
or are swamped in other email and just dont want to answer it. I dunno.

Safa's disappeared, needed to get away from the kbd for a little while,
probably for reasons related to being asked to do more stuff than she was
comfie doing. Let's try not to overload ourselves, cat people, but um, if
you feel you have a contrib to make, don't hesitate to do so 8-)


Backups
---------
I notice the latest full back we have is Nov 1. Dec 1 never got made. 
I also notice in /spare/backups we stopped making backups in early
Nov. What gives? It appears (though I might be wrong) that on Oct 7 Chris
didn't remember to re-set ownership to root and execution permissions on,
in /etc/cron.daily/run-backup so nothing was getting done by
cron.daily. 

-rw-r--r--    1 chris    chris        3596 Oct  7 19:13 run-backup

... this is the sort of silly error I make, so for all I know it might
have been me, or Chris correcting some stupidity of mine in the backup
scripts! This has been chmod/chown/chgrp'd back into usability so we
should get some new backups tonight. Please keep an eye on this.

/root/mirror's stuff is pretty fresh though since pink is trashed at the
mo there's no rsync of this made every day.



Membership Wrangling policy on new members. 
--------------------------------------------
Leah: do we wanna have 6-monthly subscription drives, or what? Do we wanna
scale it to synchronise with when-the-members-join or just hook it to a
calendar? Moz reckons we have to get the database working so this can
become a computer-fills-in-the-blanks automated thing. Safari's backing
away from the keyboard for a while so the work's going to happen on the
Chris and Reha side of the universe. Simon mentioned the Clan does a
pro-rata thing (say 20 bux per 6 months) ... Moz reckons this is thing
which Cron could do. Proposal is that in 2003 a letter be sent to cat
members explaining the changes to the mechanism for accepting donations.

Domain hosting might be a donated-for yearly thing, we're piddlingly cheap
compared to the commercial stuff.

Also: maybe friend-of-cat status might be a publically acknowledged to
people who donate hardware, bux, time... so it demonstrates that cat is
not just a commercial ISP which provides IT services in exchange for bux.

Maybe the FEED THE CAT page needs to point to some page which is really simple
so anyone who wants to donate can just do so simply. Moz investigated the COD
option and it was paaaaaainful.


PANR
----
Leah and Gen are talking about Dreamweaver and setting up the site structure.
Pred will meet with them in the coming weeks to discuss the site layout.

Workshops/Pre-emtive Fixups
---------------------------
Currently (on monday) the numbers are a bit low. PHP has a few people; a
few Lin/Win people and no hardware punters. Maybe this is comes lack of
notification given to the people who run certain lists, cos of the lack of
up to dateness of the list of list admins. Leah got no objections about
proposal putting notification about the workshops up on the big active
calendar. JJ reckons we need to ask people where they heard about the
course so we can figure out better ways to notify people. There's a
proposal to make an email alias which mails to the list of all email
admins, and Moz will do it - thanks Mozza!

The idea was kicked around to get AvantCard to do a run of cards, if someone in
cat could come up with a design to actually give to AvantCard and throw a
proposal together. JJ'll do the pitch if Leah comes up with a design.
There's also the stuff which cat does (like training) but which does not appear
very much on the webiste.

Um: update: two people showed up to the hardware thing, and both appeared
to enjoy it. Several showed up to Giffo's PHP and John's Debian install
thing.


Names for the Boxes, and status logs for them.
-----------------------------------------------
Name the boxes, woo hoo. Keep it short if poss.
Stickers are good for machines so status can be documented.
Don't toy with it - some machines need not to me messed with.
--Maybe a local logfile on the box? No, might not be able to see it.
--Turn them all on and test 'em (hardware audit) tonight

UPDATE: several have been installed with woody today at JohnH's workshop.


DNS/ADSL/Modem
---------------
Jj has applied for DSL from TPG, filled out the form.
JJ wants to know that since it's going on his credit card that he will have
reassurance of cat donating so he isn't personally exposed to idiot
bandwidth bills, etc.

Plan:
Once DSL is working kill the TWS line since we don't really use it.
Once DNS has been routed to conway, kill the Telstra permanent one.
Then get pimp to work on the DSL/Dialin line (reprogram the modem
scripts). We HAVE TO get rid of this expensive, slow, shit phone line
modem link to telstra, it's worse than throwing $ down the toilet.


Alpha Bill
----------
The last bill was in dispute between the accountancy at TWS, the Alpha bill and
the traffic counting on the Firewall. Alpha will get back to us on this.
Andy's been pretty methodical about the data accounting, as usual.


Greenpeace and aotearoa 
------------------------
Finn donated to support the aotearoa site operating cost!
The mystery $25 was some dude who donated to us just cos he liked it!
Gabe Kuiper donated fifty bux!
Crit Mass is donating 110 bux!
Andy donated $400 bux worth of consulting work to pay for the cat
bandwidth bill, whooar!! 
Megan donated a DSL modem worth $300, whooar!!
GP donated to cover the cost of a new UPS battery, and so did TWS!
Sav donated a pile of knoppix cdroms which she cooked up!
Probably other people donated other stuff too but it all was forgotten
in the swirling donation river... wow. Sorry if I left anybody out.

Wow, many dudes are very generous! Thanks!


Spamassassin
------------
Um, I have written nothing about this, maybe it didn't get discussed? Or
maybe I'm just forgetful.


Content Management at Cat
-------------------------
JohnH has been working for TWS installing open-source CMS (content
management system) on Squelchy (TWS's CMS server testbed).

Giffo reckons there's considerable advantages to using them to help cat run cat.
Droopal, post-nuke and others come to John's mind, depends what you want them to
do. TWS uses PHProject to do project management. Maybe cat should think about
using content management to manage our website. 

People seem to want some sort of tiered access management system so droolin'
newbies can't toast the front page but can still do some useful stuff.

Giffo mentions they're very well structured sites; we're not sure how using
these things will improve how cat will do its stuff, though maybe the jobs we
have to do can be made more likely to get done if there's project_management
stuff happening. Are there bandwidth issues, maintenance loads secondary to
running this stuff. Does CMS make it more opaque for people to actually
manage a website if it breaks?

<long rant about the active codebase, limited concentration of geek firepower on
its maintenance, how this relates to what Cat does, blah blah>

Perhaps we could bribe Andy to come along to a Active-specific meeting in
Jan (Leah will possibly do this). Leah will post to Webcoders to notify
people about active code directions.


Midnight Star
--------------
I salvaged a hub from the midnight star, it's a 3Com 12 port UTP one from
someone with an unreadable scrawled email addy (which bounces) something
like simonspc@apopmail.com - anyone know who this is so their hub can go
back to them?


Flakiness
------------
Conway was rebooted for unknown reasons a couple of weeks back, and
when this happened, weirdness secondary to the distro upgrade some weeks
earlier. I temporarily and JohnH permanently fixed loop-interface
problems which made postgres work again and Andy tickled the mailman
config to make the lists work again.

On Dec4 the power grid went insane during the bushfires, and the load
spikes killed our old UPS (again) and also killed the backplane hub in
Avatar the gateway, and toasted pink's power supply to death too. 

Marty Richards gave me an APC 1400 V/S UPS some months back, awesome
beast... so I've dropped it in to keep cat going; Greenpeace have donated
the cost of one new UPS battery, TWS donated for the other one, so now
we're using that wicked UPS which I note has surge protection built in; it
backs up chef, avatar, conway and would back pink up except pink's out of
it for the moment.


Annual Geek Meeting (AGM)
-------------------------
Moz and Rumble each have a party on the 14th. Maybe the cat thing should
be moved to the sunday (the 15th, 2pm, no bandwidth, no dead animal
products, BYO food, ends late, say 9). If it's an AGM it should have an
agenda.

UPDATE: Moz's flatmate has not moved out so there's no space for
this party on the 15th at Moz's place.


Monday Jan 6th 7:30pm
---------------------
is the scheduled date for the next Cat meeting.


Thanks for all your efforts cat heads!


<predator>


