From guyd@zip.com.au Wed Oct 23 11:06:02 2002
Date: Tue, 22 Oct 2002 01:26:32 +1000
From: Guy Dunphy <guyd@zip.com.au>
Reply-To: cave_clan@yahoogroups.com
To: cave_clan@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: (C/C) Stalker

At 02:27 PM 21/10/02 -0000, you wrote:
>When I read all of the links you post, I am left wondering why the US 
>government does not even attempt to censor pages like rense.com? If 
>rense, and many sites like it, do actually provide the real truth, 
>why is it freely avaliable?
>
>-=oxider>

There are several factors which contribute an answer to that question.
1. Only a relatively small percentage of the population reads the internet
   enough to make a difference to their opinions. Maybe 1%? This is not very
   significant. There are always a few percent of 'dissidents' at any time,
   net or no net, and so far the net is not making a serious dent in the media
   spin.
2. There are _hundreds_ of sites like rense.com (my list is only a small
   sampling.) To shut them all down would require very 'visible' steps
   be taken, which would alert too many people to the intents of the censors.
   You should know - its the nature of the net to make censorship difficult-
   it requires systemic changes to the net structure to do that.
3. Rense, etc don't provide 'the real truth', just an uncensored flow of information.
   Consequently, a lot of it is bullshit. You have to really wade in, and learn
   to exercise your own judgement of whats crap and whats not. I still get
   caught sometimes. The trick is to remember that _everything_ ever written
   was intended by someone to convince you of something. Mostly, even the writer
   wasn't thinking of their efforts in this way, and were trying to be truthful.
   However, there exist powerful groups who have no interest in truth at all
   (except to bury it), and who work solely to induce beliefs. But who, and what?
   And _why_ do they want you to think that?
   Learning to consider that question _first_, for _all_ sources, and gaining
   proficiency at detecting coordinated PR/spin campaigns, is a very
   important lesson. Next lesson, is to apply that same filtering to the mass
   media. Try: http://www.totse.com/en/conspiracy/mind_control/disinfor.html
   Also read Chomsky's 'Manufacturing Consent', and Pilger's 'A secret Country'-
   that will get you started.

   Do you recall when the US government announce it was forming a new office
   of the military, 'Office of public disinformation' (or something equivalent,
   I can't recall the exact title.) There was a 'public outcry' (in the media)
   and the government claimed to have backed down on the idea of having people
   who's jobs consisted of lying to the US public.
   But its been suggested since that the 'public outcry' was actually just the
   first job that office did. Pulling a cloak of invisibility over itself.

4. To counteract an uncensored information channel, it isn't necessary to plug
   it. Another way is to raise the 'noise level', till most people tune it out.
   There are clearly discernable campaigns to do this to the various aspects of
   the net that are annoying to the authorities. Significant Usenet newsgroups
   such as aus.politics invariably have their populations of government-paid
   beligerants. If you have ever been involved in some public-topics newsgroup
   over a period of a few years, or during some major public issue, you will
   know what I mean.
   Email has porn/MMF spammers, and even sites like rense get their share of
   disinformation-plant articles.
   Then of course, when the really big lies are flying, the average Joe who mostly
   watches the evening TV news (CNN is a blatant US govt mouthpiece, do some
   googling on that - CIA agents in key CNN positions) but also does happen to
   read a bit of net-news, encounters cognitive dissonance- where the two
   world-stories are so radically different, that its impossible to take 'the
   other one' seriously for long enough to give it careful examination.

5. All that aside, there _are_ serious attempts being made to take many of the
   major 'conspiracy sites' off the air right now, and in the long term to
   castrate the internet as a potential challenge to our ruler's monopoly on
   public information. The percentage of people who are deciding that the mass
   madia are full of crap, and who consequently choose to completely ignore it,
   is growing rapidly since 911, and this is clearly worrying those in power.
   Many of the major sites are being subjected to near continuous and highly
   varied technical attacks. Hack exploits, DOS, DNS hacks, etc. Many sites
   recommend you bookmark their IP address, for when the DNS system has been
   hacked to remove them. I've seen this happen to rense several times.
   whatreallyhappened.com gets particularly heavily hammered, perhaps due to
   their focussing on the zionist control of American politics and media.
   One great trick of the attackers is to send mass & offensive spam mail, with
   spoofed source address of the news site (or their ISP). Result: the anti-spam
   mechanisms being built into the net get triggered, cutting off the news-sites
   net access, routability, etc widely across the net.
   Then there are the very involved steps being taken by the copyright-control
   crowd (same faces as the NWO corporate sponsors) to convert the PC itself into
   something much more controlled and unsupportive of free information exchange.
   But that one is a very long story, and intended to take care of the net
   'threat' in the long term - say 5 to 10 years.

6. One last aspect - the most paranoid of all. With echelon, carnivore, full
   accessibilty of by federal offices to ISPs and telecoms carriers, for full,
   warrantless tapping of all communications, and a political mood in which
   mass arrest of 'terrorist sympathisers' are accepted without public rioting,
   then a few percent of people being 'aware' is OK by the government.
   They can easily monitor _who_ those troublemakers are, and go and disappear
   them anytime they become too much of a nuisance.




------------------------ Yahoo! Groups Sponsor ---------------------~-->
Plan to Sell a Home?
http://us.click.yahoo.com/J2SnNA/y.lEAA/jd3IAA/ktVolB/TM
---------------------------------------------------------------------~->

 

Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/ 


