Thank you iniviting me around to your place.

Apart from not really having a place, even if I did have a place I
wouldn't have the guts to invite you around... the 'fraidy-cat factor is
significant here. You derived from my comment about my trepidation about
chatting to women in Cafes that you're too ugly to chat to.... but my
trepidation applies to all of them (especially the ones who look like
they'd shoot anything with a Y chromosome just for the sake of it).
Really, I just don't know what would I say which would possibly be
interesting to 'em. You blew into EMU in your 1900s weeds and broadcast
hard core poetry and occasional derision at my back while I sat being a
geek. I wanted to chat to ya but what arrr, would I say? You were always
chatting with other people, or you were going off to the pub... I really
hate pubs, they're full of smoke and noise and pissed yobbos, I hate going
to pubs, so I generally won't follow anyone there.

So you invited me around, wow, I headded over there half curious and half
shitscared and half honoured and half not quite believing it (my maths
isn't very good) and had great food and company and music (not in any
particular order) and we chatted famously and then, ah yes, Charlotte
doesn't think she looks any good. I do actually usually sleep with my
clothes on, it keeps emaciated individuals (like) me warm, especially when
the doona comes off because the cat has to be attended to every couple of
hours... I slept very soundly on friday night.

I find it difficult to get it into my head that you cannot conceive of
yourself as anything other than ugly. 

I think this belief is, by various means, something you have eventually
chosen, and ultimately it has come to determine how you interpret stuff...
like how you interpret how other people react to you.

This is quite apart from the whole issue of wether or not you believe the
media-propagated lie that the body you live in is the sole determinant of
beauty. I don't think that's true at all, I've met some people who live in
what I think would be conventionally referred to as quite beautiful bodies
but their actual personalities are pretty thoroughly fucked.... they live
out their lives trying to conform to what they see on TV, trying to
impress upon people that their physical beauty makes them worthwhile
company even though they are really just good-looking, vacuous clueless
cretins. Some of the most excellent people I know live in old and (the
horror!) imperfect bodies of the kind which we tend not to see on TV.

People call each other ugly because it's a cheap shot, aimed right at
where we are most vulnerable - our fragile self images. What comeback is
there? Even if we think we're OK there's this outside opinion that says
we're not. You know yourself better than anyone, by comparison, so what
the fuck do they know? More to the point - why should you care what they
think? Fuck 'em. You don't need anyone else's approval to be a human
being.


It isn't my job to convince you that you're beautiful or not, the only
person who can persuade you in this matter is yourself, because I think
you have painted yourself into a corner where:

1) If someone says you're ugly then you believe and accept it instantly
2) If someone says you're beautiful then you instantly think they're lying

With a belief system like that, nothing complementary I or anyone else can
say to you will change your mind. Its entirely up to you. Life might be
more pleasant for you if you don't go through it deriding yourself for
living in your body. I would also prefer that you didn't tell me that I
think you're ugly, because 1) I don't think that and 2) in any case why
should you care about what I think?

Hmmm... excellent coat of arms, and yummy pesto. I've never had tahini on
toast in bed before.

                                   *

Anyway, thanks a stack for the evening. I'm gonna be ferociously busy for
the next couple of weeks, teaching at UNSW. I'll see if I can ring you at
some stage, maybe we should keep chatting.

Go well (petroleum companies be buggered)

Mike
