File: Cheaters.txt
Cont: The reasons why we really want you to do your own work in GENC5001
 
Look, I really shouldn't have to write this document, but past experience
of GENC5001 students really compels me to do it so I can just send you to
a URL and get you to understand why cheats and plagiarists in GENC5001 get
failed. FAILED. Sometimes even excluded from the university for two
years because we found them shoulder-surfing other people's answers in
exams or submitting each other's stuff.

We tutors are friendly, intelligent, and moderately knowledgable human
beings. We love to give people lots of marks, but sometimes they just
don't deserve them. So, if you don't know something, don't be upset or 
embarrassed, just ASK US. We were probably asked the same question last
year, and quite possibly if you ask us, it means you've reminded us to
teach everyone something which we forgot to tell you all.

I and a number of other GENC5001 tutors have tried repeatedly to inform
GENC5001 students that if they plagiarise their work, OR do not adequately
reference their material, they will get F, but it seems to be the case
that the students don't believe we're smart enough, or interested enough,
to detect cheating. We are, and we do, and there are F's in people's
academic records to prove it. 

We are happy to give people fails, even if it blows the grade curve. 

Cheats prosper without doing the required work. They make people who do
the work look less worthy by comparison. Also, it's an insult to the
tutors who have to mark the stuff, and believe me, after we've looked at
student submissions for a few hours, we're more than ready to fail you if
we think you're trying to fool us.

We're hard to fool. Here's some of the ways we know.

0) Plagarised texts generally have little or no relevance in answering the
   set questions. If you steal irrelevant text and pass it off as your own,
   you designate yourself as a twit and deserve your zero anyway.

1) Students have not devolved to the point where they can write anything
   that looks remotely like the vacuous, verbose advertising copy typical
   of corporate web pages. No student will ever write:

  "IBM e-commerce solutions enable business to tailor their web site to 
   suit their requirements. IBM e-business solutions interface with a wide
   range of proven logistics packages to provide integrated warehousing
   and billing functionality across a range of platforms."

 - simply because a student generally is not office-indoctrinated enough
   to be able to write this sort of rubbish. Those who can write this
   rubbish are being paid a fortune, and they are generally not at Uni.
   
   A student would typically write:

   "NetSoftware from IBM helps organisations to sell their things uing the
    internet. It does this by letting people log into a site somewhere,
    choose the items which they want to buy, and then click on an icon
    which sets in motion a mechanism which debits a credit card and also 
    updates a list of remaining stock in the warehouse."  
 
   We are not marking you on your mastery of English syntax, grammar or
   spelling. However, for full marks, your code has to work.

2) A student's own work is generally littered with bad code, spelling 
   errors and grammatical mistakes. This is normal and we expect it,
   both from first-language English speakers, and from people for whom
   English is not their preferred language. When we find large slabs of
   text lacking these error characteristics, it makes us suspicious and we
   look more thoroughly at the code for other telltale signs of copying.

3) If we tell you to write your OWN code and there, in your submitted
   code, is a meta-tag which says this code was built with a tool we asked
   you not to use, or three hundred <&nbsp> tags, or nested superfluous
   empty list items - or any of the other fingerprints of code generation 
   tools, like cascading style sheets, embedded Java etc ... bzzzzt. 

4) If we think you pinched text off some site, we can just plug it into a
   search engine, and then we not only know if you pinched it, we know
   where you pinched it from. We have had *entire essays* foisted on us
   in this manner, and these get the biggest pre-fail laughs when we're 
   marking the material. 

5) Further, we will sometimes read an essay which someone writes, and then
   read it again, with someone else's name on it. We know, we really pay
   attention when we read things. We generally fail both people in this
   case. So don't give your essay to your friend if you want to keep the 
   friendship.

In all of these cases, if we do catch you and you're dopey enough to try 
and evade the fail awarded to you, we will possess the required evidence
to make you look like a fool in front of the academic board. This is why
we keep your floppy disks.

More to the point, why are you cheating anyway? Look, unlike a lot of
courses on offer at Uni, this one actually is useful to you. If you are at
uni for reasons other than wanting to learn how to do stuff (such as,
parents are forcing you to go, or you haven't decided what to do with your
life yet) then maybe failing a course is not the best way to find this
out and you should re-assess wether or not you're just taking up space in
the enrollment list at the expense of someone else who didn't get in.
 
Kind Regards.

Mike Carlton, B.Sc. (Hons).
Co-sysadmin, www.cat.org.au 
