From predator@cat.org.au Thu Jul  5 00:33:19 2001
Date: Tue, 3 Jul 2001 13:48:21 +1000 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: guyd@zip.com.au
Subject: MAPS: [Big-Medicine] Noam Chomsky on The Drug War Industrial
    Complex (fwd)


---------- Forwarded message ----------
Date: Tue, 03 Jul 2001 02:09:17 +0900
From: Chris Case <r-anima@qb3.so-net.ne.jp>
Reply-To: Big-Medicine@yahoogroups.com
Subject: [Big-Medicine] Noam Chomsky on The Drug War Industrial Complex

Excerpts from:
Noam Chomsky Interview: Real Agenda of War on Drugs

http://www.ariannaonline.com/interact/phorum/read.php?f=5&i=24&t=24

Informative reading.
http://www.hal-pc.org/~clyndes/political-chomsky.html

 Noam Chomsky on The Drug War Industrial Complex

Interview With Noam Chomsky (edited by CC)

>> Propaganda is much more effective when it is combined with terror.
You have the same problem domestically, where the public is constantly
getting out of control. You have to carry out measures to insure that
they remain passive and apathetic and obedient, and don't interfere with
privilege or power. It's a major theme of modern democracy. As the
mechanisms of democracy expand, like enfranchisement and growth, the
need to control people by other means increases. So the growth of
corporate propaganda in the United States more or less parallels the
growth of democracy, for quite straightforward reasons. It's not any
kind of secret. It is discussed very frankly and openly in business
literature and academic social-science journals. You have to "fight the
everlasting battle for the minds of men," in their standard phraseology,
to indoctrinate and regiment them in the way that armies regiment their
bodies. Those are population control measures. This engineering or
manufacture of consent is the essence of democracy, because you have to
insure that ignorant and meddlesome outsiders-meaning we, the
people-don't interfere with the work of the serious people who run
public affairs in the interests of the privileged.

>>One of the traditional and obvious ways of controlling people in every
society, whether it's a military dictatorship or a democracy, is to
frighten them. If people are frightened, they'll be willing cede
authority to their superiors who will protect them: " OK, I'll let you
run my life in order to protect me," that sort of reasoning. So the fear
of drugs and the fear of crime is very much stimulated by state and
business propaganda.

>>The Drug War is an effort to stimulate fear of dangerous people from
who we have to protect ourselves. It is also, a direct form of control
of what are called " dangerous classes," those superfluous people who
don't really have a function contributing to profit-making and wealth.
They have to be somehow taken care of.

>>Marijuana use was peaking in the late '70's, but there was not much
criminalization. You didn't go to jail for having marijuana then because
the people using it were nice folks like us, the children of the rich.
You don't throw them into jail any more than you throw corporate
executives into jail-even though corporate crime is more costly and
dangerous than street crime. But then in the '80's the use of various "
unhealthy " substances started to decline among more educated sectors:
marijuana and tobacco smoking, alcohol, red meat, coffee, this whole
category of stuff. On the other hand, usage remained steady among poorer
sectors of the population. In the United States, poor and black
correlation-they're not identical, but there's a correlation-and in
poor, black and Hispanic sectors of the population the use of such
substances remained steady. So take a look at those trends when you call
for a War on Drugs, you know exactly who you're going to pick up: poor
black people. You're not going to pick up rich white people: you don't
go after them anyway In the upper-middle class suburb where I live, if
somebody goes home and sniffs cocaine police don't break into their
house. So there are many factors making the Drug War a war against the
poor, largely poor people of color. And those are the people they have
to get rid of.

>> Poor people are basically superfluous for the wealth production, and
therefore the wealthy want to get rid of them. The rich also frighten
everyone else, because if you're afraid of these people, then you submit
to state authority. But beyond that, it's a state industry. Since the
1930's, every businessman has understood that a private capitalist
economy must have massive state subsidies; the only question is what
form that state subsidy will take? In the United States the main form
has been through the military system. The most dynamic aspects of the
economy-computers, the Internet, the aeronautical industry,
pharmaceuticals-have fed off the military system. But the crime-control
industry, as it's called by criminologists, is becoming the
fastest-growing industry in America. And it's state industry, publicly
funded. It's the construction industry, the real estate industry, and
also high tech firms. It's gotten to a sufficient scale that high
technology and military contractors are looking to it as a market for
techniques of high-tech control and surveillance, so you can monitor
what people do in their private activities with complicated electronic
devices and supercomputers: monitoring their telephone calls and
urinalyses and so forth. In fact, the time will probably come when this
superfluous population can be locked up in private apartments, not
jails, and just monitored to track when they do nothing wrong, say the
wrong thing, go the wrong direction.

>>It's enough of an industry so that the major defense-industry firms
are interested; you can read about it in " The Wall Street Journal." The
big law firms and investment houses are interested: Merrill Lynch is
floating big loans for prison construction. If you take the whole
system, it's probably approaching the scale of the Pentagon. Also this
is a terrific work force. We hear fuss about prison labor in China, but
prison labor is standard here. It's very cheap, it doesn't organize, the
workers don't ask for rights, you don't have to worry about health
benefits because the public is paying for everything. It's what's called
a 'flexible' workforce, the kind of thing economists like; you have the
workers when you want them, and you throw them out when you don't want
them. And what's more it's an old American tradition. There was a big
industrial revolution in parts of the South in the early part of this
century, in northern Georgia and Kentucky and Alabama and it was based
mostly around prison labor. The slaves had been technically freed, but
after a few years, they were basically slaves again. One way of
controlling them was to throw them in jail, where they became a
controlled labor force. That's the core of the modern industrial
revolution in the South, which continued in Georgia to the 1920's and to
the Second World War in places like Mississippi. Now it's being revived.
In Oregon and California there's a fairly substantial textile industry
in the prisons, with exports to Asia. At the very time people were
complaining about prison labor in China, California and Oregon are
exporting prison-made textiles to China.
...In the state of Washington, Boeing workers are protesting the exports
of jobs to China, but they're probably unaware that their jobs are being
exported to nearby prisons, where machinists are doing work for Boeing
under circumstances that the management is delighted over, for obvious
reasons.

>>...the United Nations tries to monitor the international drug trade,
and their estimates are on the order of $400 to $500 billion---half a
trillion dollars a year--- in trade alone, which makes it higher than
oil, something like 10 percent of the world trade. Where this money
comes goes to is mostly unknown, but general estimates are that maybe 60
percent of it passes through US banks. After that, a lot goes to
offshore tax havens. It's so obscure that nobody monitors it, and nobody
wants to. But the Commerce Department every year publishes figures on
foreign direct investment, where US investment is going, and through the
'90s the big excitement has been the " new emerging markets " like Latin
America. And it turns out that a quarter of US foreign direct investment
is going to Bermuda, another 15 percent to the Bahamas and the Cayman
Islands, another 10 percent to Panama, and so on. Now, their not
building steel factories. The most benign interpretation is that it's
just tax havens. And the less benign interpretation is that it's one way
of passing illegal money into places where it will not be monitored. We
really don't know, because it is not investigated. This is not the task
of the Justice Department, which is to go after a black kid in the
ghetto who has a joint in his pocket.

>>The neoliberal structural-adjustment policies of the World Bank and
International Monetary Fund, which are run by the US, try to drive
peasants into agro-export, producing not for local consumption but for
sale abroad. They want to reduce social programs, like spending for
health and education, cutting government deficits by increasing exports.
And they cut back tariffs so that we can pour our highly subsidized food
exports into their countries, which of course undercuts peasant
production. Put all that together and what do you get? You get a huge
increase in Bolivian coca production, as their only comparative
advantage.

>> I'm putting aside another factor altogether, namely clandestine
warfare. If you look into the history of what is called the CIA, which
means the US White House, it's secret wars, clandestine warfare, the
trail of drug production just follows. It started in France after the
Second World War when the United States was essentially trying to
reinstate the traditional social order, to rehabilitate Fascist
collaborators, wipe out the Resistance and destroy the unions and so on.
The first thing they did was reconstitute the mafia, as strikebreakers
or for other such useful services. And the mafia doesn't do it for fun,
so there was tradeoff: Essentially they allowed them to reinstitute the
heroin-production system, which had been destroyed by the Fascists. The
Fascists tended to run a pretty tight ship; they didn't want any
competition, so they wiped out the Mafia. But the US reconstituted it,
first in southern Italy, and then in southern France with the Corsican
Mafia. That's where the famous French Connection comes from. That was
the main heroin center for many years. Then the US terrorist activities
shifted over to Southeast Asia.

>>If you want to carry out terrorist activities, you need local people
to do it for you, and you also need secret money to pay for it,
clandestine hidden money. Well if you need to hire thugs and murderers
with secret money, there aren't many options. One of them is the drug
connection. The so-called Golden Triangle around Burma, Laos and
Thailand became a big drug-producing area with the help of the United
States, as part of the secret wars against those populations. In Central
America, it was partly exposed in the Contra hearings, though it was
mostly suppressed. But there's no question that the Reagan
administration's terrorist operations in Central America were closely
connected with drug trafficking. Afghanistan became one of the biggest
centers of drug trafficking in the world in the 1980s, because that was
the payoff for the forces to which the US was contributing millions of
dollars: the same extreme Islamic fundamentalists who are now tearing
the country to shreds. It's been true throughout the world. It's not
that the US is trying to increase the use of drugs, it's just the
natural thing to do. If you were in a position where you had to hire
thugs and gangsters to kill peasants and break strikes, and you had to
do it with untraceable money, what would come to your mind?

HT: Where do you stand on drug legalization?
Chomsky: Nobody knows what the effect would be. Anyone who tells you
they know is just stupid or lying., because nobody knows. These are
things that have to be tried, you have to experiment to see what the
effects are. Most soft drugs are already legal, mainly alcohol and
tobacco. Tobacco is by far the biggest killer among all the
psychoactives. Alcohol deaths are a little hard to estimate, because an
awful lot of violent deaths are associated with alcohol. Way down below
come " hard " drugs, a tiny fraction of the deaths from alcohol and
tobacco, maybe ten or twenty thousand deaths per year. The fastest
growing hard drugs are APS, amphetamine-type substances, produced mostly
in the US. As far as the rest of the drugs are concerned, marijuana is
not known to be very harmful. I mean, it's generally assumed it's not
good for you, but coffee isn't good for you, tea isn't good for you,
chocolate cake isn't good for you either. It would be crazy to
criminalize coffee, even though it's harmful. The United States is one
of very few countries where this is considered a moral issue. In most
countries it's considered a medical issue. In most countries you don't
have politicians getting up screaming about how tough they're going to
be on drugs. So the first thing we've got to do is move out of the phase
of population control, and into the sphere of social issues. The Rand
Corporation estimates that if you compare the effect of criminal
programs versus educational programs at reducing drug use, educational
programs are way ahead by about a factor of seven.

>> The question is, what kind of education are you doing? Educational
programs aren't the only category. Education also has to do with the
social circumstances in which drugs are used. The answer to that is not
throwing people in jail. The answer is to try and figure what's going on
in their lives, their family, do they need medical care and so on? This
very striking decline in substance abuse among educated sectors, as I
said, goes across the spectrum---red meat, coffee, tobacco, everything.
That's education. It wasn't that there was an educational program that
said to stop drinking coffee, it's just that attitudes toward oneself
and towards health, how we live and so on, changed among the more
educated sectors of the population, and these things went down. And none
of it had to do with criminalization. It just had to do with a rise in
the cultural and educational level, which led to more care for oneself.

see also:
http://www.geocities.com/CapitolHill/Senate/3761/drugs.html
http://www.hal-pc.org/~clyndes/political-chomsky.html

------------------------------

"Let us lift our vision high enough to dominate the problem."
- - Pierre Teilhard de Chardin
**********************************

