From brian@socialchange.net.au Wed Dec 27 15:26:35 2000
Date: Wed, 27 Dec 2000 14:49:49 +1100
From: brian <brian@socialchange.net.au>
To: Independant Media Centre <imc-sydney@cat.org.au>
Subject: [imc-sydney] FWD -Where is the Outrage ?


" Where is the irrepressible outrage at this abominable election? "

And as Robert Chambers, the guru of Participatory Rural Appraisal,
simply & eloquently wrote " The extremes of rural poverty in the world
today are an outrage "    Yet where is the outrage in the ppl of the
world ?
--

"Our electoral system. Our government. Our markets. Our private ownership.
Our corporations. Our divisions of labor. Our institutional racial and
ethnic persecution. Our familial and organizational sexism, misogyny, and
homophobia. These imprison us. And everyone knows that pretty much
everything is broken. But no one is going to do much about it, not even be
outraged much less struggle about it, until they believe two things. (1)
That life could be much better. And (2) that we can get from where we
are to that much better place if we work hard enough.

But no one really believes the myths, not deep down. Folks don't enlarge
their doubts into full critiques nor adopt associated protest agendas, it
is true. But this isn't because they believe in 'the system'. It is
partly for want of time after working, caring for their kids, and
sleeping. It is partly because they don't see any congenial avenue for
dissenting. But it is mostly because they doubt that dissent matters.

Without believing in new institutions and an accessible path to attain
them, protest seems to them like hopeless whining that leads nowhere. Most
folks look away. The bad guys get even worse.

So my Christmas and New Year's query is why don't we radicals we put more
mental and organizational energy into creating widely shared vision and
strategy? That's what differentiates having enlightened, committed, and
effective movements, from having good critiques but minimal movements. "

b
====

A Cup of Crap
By Michael Albert

Bush lost the popular vote. Bush lost the Electoral College (or would have
by a fair Florida count). But Bush owns the White House. Cheney was our
Gulf War Secretary of Defense. More than merely military-entwined, Cheney
is a war criminal. But Cheney will soon run the White House. Powell is an
ex-General. Powell wouldn't mind wearing a perpetual uniform. And Powell
is another Gulf War criminal. But Powell heads State. And then there is
Schwarzkopf. This Gulf Warrior's warrior also campaigned hard for this
outcome. Who knows what he'll end up with.

How did it happen?

They incarcerated and disenfranchised large swaths of the electorate. They
obstructed Black voters on the way to the polls. They manipulated and
denied diverse constituency's votes. They likely tanked many ballots. But
even with all that and with Gore's pathetic campaign, their cheating fell
short of producing a Bush victory. No problem. The highest court played
piper. The Supremes sounded the final charge. They gaveled to submission
even our feeble democracy. Not just a sullied election, this was a
hijacking. The military straddled the driver's seat. The kiss-ass law
crawled across the floor. The Supremes pumped the breaks and gas. They are
headed back to the last millennium. Whoa -- who's going to the
inauguration?

Heretofore, regarding the election I have mainly argued that translating
Nader's momentum into lasting left commitments is our movement's main
task. And so it is. But there is another election topic that is attracting
almost no attention, even on the left. It is not the chads. They were done
to death. It is not the election rip-off. That should get more attention,
but is getting quite a lot. It is not even the racist reversal of intent
of the Black and Latino electorate. Even that has gotten some of the
attention it merits, as has the highest hypocrisy of the Supremest Court.

No, what I see as basically ignored is the mindset of Tom, Dick, Harry,
Sue, Sarah, and Sally. In short, where is the anger in Des Moines,
Phoenix, Portland, Mobile, Toledo, and Buffalo? Where is the irrepressible
outrage at this abominable election? Do you know the method of argument
called reductio ad absurdum? First we assume some claim. Then we show that
the claim's truth implies expectations confounded by reality. Finally, if
we don't see the outcome the claim implies, we conclude that the claim
itself must be false and reject it.

Suppose we assume that the population of the U.S. broadly believes what
our textbooks tell us: that the U.S. is a democracy, that the law is
unbiased and sacrosanct, and that choosing a President is a hallowed
responsibility. Surely people who believe this would be mighty upset at
having it taken away. Wars are ostensibly fought to avoid such
freedom-theft.

But in full color 3D, with nary an obstructed view in sight, and so
explicitly that even the most obtuse observer had to comprehend the
events, democracy was beaten into oblivion. So where is the anger?

This election should look to the presumed patriotic public, like a vile,
duplicitous power grab undertaken to attain reactionary control of
government. Even mainstream newspapers report that with a Florida fair
count Gore wins. Is the absence of major reaction because most people like
the outcome? Come on. Less than 25% of the voting age population wanted
Bush in the White House and plenty of those thought only that he was
nicer, more honest, or less pedantic than Gore.

Is it that outrage was blunted by a lack of prior learning that precluded
people seeing the truth? Not at all. In fact, too much prior education
facilitates rationalization and denial. In our society a good general rule
is `the less the education the better the insight.' (An even better
rule, my favorite, aptly demonstrated in the election, is `garbage
rises.')

If people sincerely believed before this election that we live in the
world's foremost democracy, then they would be irate, it seems to me. But
people are not irate so we have to conclude that most folks don't really
believe this is the world's foremost democracy, or even a democracy at
all, and therefore didn't see anything usurped during this election that
wasn't already in the outbox.

Most folks knew the score before the election and still know it after the
election. Within the defining institutions of the U.S. -- the government,
the market, the corporations -- the deck was and is horribly stacked.  
Power and wealth 83, freedom nearly nothing. But the public's passivity
about the vile and transparent duplicity in Jeb Bush's police state,
about the vapid campaigns, about the Court's almost comical hypocrisy,
and about the media's moronic manipulations, isn't apathy. Instead,
virtually nobody sees a good reason to militantly react. It isn't that
folks don't care about their future. It is that folks believe (however
wrongly, if we account for serious activism) that the future is beyond
their reach. 

Real democracy, remember, means that people have both information and
means to impact outcomes. But in our society, unless we have a lot of time
to find and read obscure sources, we have little if any honest information
bearing on major decisions. We lack ways to develop meaningful political
preferences. We can't significantly impact low-level superficial matters
such as deciding who should be president, much less more serious matters
such as what the president will do in office, what the government will do,
what corporations will do.

U.S. elections are a sham. And it now turns out that even the sham is a
sham. And the new revelation piled on top of that is that everyone knows
it.

Let's get this side-show over with, people think. It's boring. It's
embarrassing. Let's go back to school, to work, to our households, or to
wherever else we can get some modest pleasure and consistency. Let's
congregate where reality is at least partly what it appears to be. Let's
express preferences where outcomes are at least somewhat subject to our
desires. Let's go home, or perhaps to the mall, or maybe to read the
sports pages, the only honest ones in the newspaper.

This attitude doesn't change the world, it's true, but it's not crazy or
apathetic. Envision someone in prison. He or she tries to get the best out
of the allotted work-out room, library, TV-room, or commissary, however
meager the attained pleasures may be. Such prisoners certainly don't
methodically research all the limitations their cells impose on them. They
don't daily protest those limitations. They turn the other cheek and get
on with their (limited) life. Unless and until prisoners see a way out,
they cautiously seek to create a viable existence. It only looks like
apathetic acceptance.

Our electoral system. Our government. Our markets. Our private ownership.
Our corporations. Our divisions of labor. Our institutional racial and
ethnic persecution. Our familial and organizational sexism, misogyny, and
homophobia. These imprison us. And everyone knows that pretty much
everything is broken. But no one is going to do much about it, not even be
outraged much less struggle about it, until they believe two things. (1)
That life could be much better. And (2) that we can get from where we are
to that much better place if we work hard enough.

No one over eight years old and not in complete denial truly believes in
2001 that our U.S. system is honorable, worthy, or just. Those at the top
know the system serves them and have decided that that's just dandy. Their
morals are toast. The rest of us know the system sucks. We try to make do.

Yes, many people intone favorable words about democracy and freedom and
don appropriate rhetorical garb to get through the day. But no one really
believes the myths, not deep down. Folks don't enlarge their doubts into
full critiques nor adopt associated protest agendas, it is true. But this
isn't because they believe in `the system.' It is partly for want of time
after working, caring for their kids, and sleeping. It is partly because
they don't see any congenial avenue for dissenting. But it is mostly
because they doubt that dissent matters.

Without believing in new institutions and an accessible path to attain
them, protest seems to them like hopeless whining that leads nowhere. Most
folks look away. The bad guys get even worse.

So my Christmas and New Year's query is why don't we radicals we put more
mental and organizational energy into creating widely shared vision and
strategy? That's what differentiates having enlightened, committed, and
effective movements, from having good critiques but minimal movements.

The big irony about the election, by the way, is that other than the very
few rich folk who vote their real interests and care avidly about doing
so, the half of the population who actually goes out and votes are not
significantly more involved or concerned than the half who don't vote. In
fact, I submit for your consideration that U.S. voters who vote do so
largely because to not vote would violate the assumptions and protocols of
their communities and their superficially held personal mythologies. Not
because they sincerely believe they are exercising an influential
democratic responsibility. And I submit that U.S. non-voters who stay home
do so for pretty much the same reason. They abide their community's norm,
which is `why vote given that the candidates are two heads a single
corporate party that remorselessly screws me?'

So the truth is out. And deep down, virtually everyone knows. Our
society's defining institutions are nearly all a cup of crap. Our
elections, and the rest too.

