
I got a letter from the department of Communications, Information
Technology and the Arts (only Australia could have such a department), in
response to my letter to Senator Richard Alston some months ago (February)
concerning the carrier license fee and its impediment to using wireless
commodity hardware.
 
Here's what I got: (On paper format, mind you, which might be indicative
of the state of play)

---------------------------------------------
Dear (my real name)

Thank you for your letter dated 28 February 2002 to the Minister for
Communications, Information and the Arts concerning wireless broadband
access. The Minister has asked me to respond on his behalf.

The Government recognises the the availablity of broadband services is
important for the development of the Australian economy and is looking for
ways of practically encouraging its availability and takeup.
Correspondance from people such as yourself plays an important role in
informing about instances where problems in supply exist.

The matters you have raised are relevant to a wider enquiry currently
being conducted by a House of Representatives Committee. The Government
will consider any recommendations made by the Committee upon completion of
the inquiry.


I note your comments about the existing telecommunications carrier
licensing regime. I appreciate that the carrier license fee could act as a
barrier to entry for small operators, however it is also important that
the regulations of the telecommunications industry are as technologically
and competitively neutral as possible. The Government believes these
principles are important aspects of facilitating the development of a
competitive market.

When the licensing regime was established it was recognised that there may
be types of infrastructure owners who did not want to hold a carrier
license themselves. As a consequence the Telecommunications Act 1997
includes provision for networks that require a license to be covered by a
Nominated Carrier Declaration (NCD). Under the NCD provisions it is
possible for one entity to hold the license and pay the license fee, on
behalf of any number of networks. The nominated carrier is then
responsible for the various obligations attached to carrier license.

Further information on the provision of broadband services in Australia
and the Government's role is outlined in the attached Fact Sheet. The
approach adopted in Australia is consistent with approaches taken in other
OECD countries as well as with the OECD's own findings that an open
competitive telecommunications market is the best way to encouragr rollout
and takeup of broadband services.

I hope this information is of some assistance.

Yours Sincerely 

Colin Lyons, 
General Manager
Telecommunications Competition and Consumer    <---this line is as written! 
18 June 2002

---------


