From predator@cat.org.au Sat Sep 16 00:13:09 2000
To: predator@cat.org.au
Subject: forms, indymedia, democracy

This is a reconstruct from memory of a post I did on melbourne indymedia,
which was shitcanned at my end (hey code heads, maybe a content cache for
the big part of the text submission stuff would be really extremely good,
if it possible to implement) by a braindamaged laptop I own, which
decided, just before I submitted, that it would go play with its harddisk
for fifteen minutes instead of accept mouse movements or keystrokes.

It was prompted by a funny post done by someone who was taking the piss
out of the sort of posts that various activists were posting concerning
the violent police behaviour at the protests. see
http://melbourne.indymedia.org/display.php3?article_id=2363
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Someone raised the idea of a generic all-purpose form and someone else
suggested that catalyst geeks should code it into the indymedia site.

I don't know that such forms are a good idea. They can constrain a lot of
the refreshing, creative and diverse content which it is the indymedia
philosophy to really try to encourage, and which is, demonstrably, so much
better than the journalese and the (false) veneer of knowledgable
authority alluded to in the mainstream press and corporate broadcasting
industry. A multiple-choice type form is especially limiting, and I don't
think a fixed-format form is likely to be able to fit reality and all of
the permutations it presents to the people who contribute stories. (This
is quite apart from knowing some of the catalyst geeks are wearing their
fingerprints off keeping Indymedia going, and are juuust a little time
strapped at the moment).

Indymedia's form accommodates a lot of variation. You don't *have* to put
in anything in the address/fone number section. You can pack in a lot of 
stuff into it. I think that, for its purpose, it works very well. It's a
static contribution form, but anyone can make it dynamic by contributing
postings of contributing to the threads thereafter. In essence, the system
dynamically adapts. 

I make a point of, and enjoy, fucking around with static forms all the
time. For example, I self-witness on my electoral enrollment form, since
the requirements for witnessing are that the witness person is themselves
eligible to be enrolled - so I don't see why I don't make the grade, but 
that always gets me hate mail from the electoral commissioners in my
electorate. Then I get presented with another form when I go to vote, and
this form has nothing on it that I want; it presumes I want to be
represented by someone else (I don't) and there's no option to add any
other choices. On the (please choose one) form I am subsequently sent for
not turning up to vote, I tick ALL the excuse boxes. I've never been fined
for not voting. They must take notice of the "mentally incompetant" box.
 
There's more forms with which I wrangle. When I go to renew my driver's
license, I have to lie about where I live because they don't permit you to
renew your license if you're homeless and definitionally can't give a home
address. RTA: "Where do you live?"  Me: "I live in the body you see in
front of you but I have to move it around a lot, hence the need for a
license."

It's a bit like the Microsoft `choice' boxes with only one option in them,
which won't release the mouse until you click in them.

       +-----------------------------------------------+
       |        "Do You want to do Blah [Yes]"         |
       +-----------------------------------------------+

You might as well have something as fascist as

       +-----------------------------------------------+
       |"You CAN, WILL and MUST click here NOW, NYAAA!"|
       +-----------------------------------------------+

The first form generated for me was my orignal birth certificate, which
has "Unamed" in the "Name:________" section.

I've heard of a guy named R.B. Jones. His first name was R and his second
name was B, these were not initials. He apparently got mail from
companies and government departments saying his name on their forms was
invalid. He would send them back a form with his name signed thus:
R (only) B (only) Jones.

Then he'd get mail addressed, To: Ronly Bonly Jones.

I guess this has, over time, predisposed me to have contempt for set forms
and little respect for the people who think that reality can be forced to
fit into them. If we must have a society run by forms, they need to
dynamically adapt to the requirements of the people who fill them in!

I do like the humourous aspect of the original post, and I agree that
being able to make a "fill-in-the-multi-choice-form" joke about highly
stylised and formal, parametricated stuff, like meaningless, braindead,
buzzword-encrusted corporate mission statements and yes, even complaints
from protesters wo seem to uniformly not like being beaten up by police
(Hmmm... I wonder why there's a commonality of style there?), is kind of
humourous, but it conceals a truth about such organisations too - they're 
too constrained to be creative.

But I have digressed. Back to the main point of the rant.

I think that there's unique opportunuity here which presents itself. Free
and particpatory media is one of the keystones of a true democracy.
Indymedia represents a starting point, a bag of seeds, an alternative
global news network which has distributed itself across the planet and is
the precursor of what will eventually, in my opinion, come to replace to
corporate un-news. Darwinian selection demands the death of the
centralised, sanitised and censored appropriately oxymoronic "old news".  

Free media, without the ability to actually organise to execute the new
directions which come from the people who read it and are exposed to the
errors and inadequacies of the existing systems, is

The technology behind indymedia could be turned to yet another use.

Additional to participatory media, we really should have the other half of
participatory democracy, and that is online continuous, issue-driven,
voluntary, secure plebiscites - electronic direct democracy.

Since we have a parliament which is invalid, see recent posts on melbourne
indymedia - http://melbourne.indymedia.org/display.php3?article_id=2148
perhaps its time to implement a real-time, participatory electronic
democratic voting system. I think the php-postgreSQL engine behind the
Indymedia sites is probably up to the task, and the code could be
distributed freely as authenticated source *and* binaries.


I do not think this would be step backward, given the profoundly
useless demonstrably corruptable system as it currently stands. 
I think it has the following advantages:

- 50% of people have net access in their homes in this country, and
  there's lots of public access terminals in net cafe's and such, so the
  infrastructure exists already. Additional infrastructure can be cheaply
  had since there's 600,000 computers, many of which are quite usable,  
  going to landfill every year.  

- You can have a cross platform gui like indymedia, free and open source
  browsers and OS, text if you like. postgreSQL and php are free and scale
  to handle monster-sized databases. 

- Since voting would be 24-h and continuously available the demand for
  vote registration infrastructure would be spread over a long period, so
  no need to do it all on one day.

- the source code can be open, and verified as non-tampered-with
  by checksums, self-validation, etc

- The server can be distributed, eliminating the vulnerability of having
  one place where vote data could be destroyed.

- protocols like ssl exist to make tampering in transit very difficult.

- disk space is cheap (cf: tonnes of paper) and reliable (error correction
  and RAIDs) and data able to be mirrored. Comms are reliable and can be
  configured to be cheap (despite what the corporate telcos say)

- security protocols exist for encryption, authentication, nonrepudiation
  or,

- you can vote anonymously, provide your own encryption key

- eliminates the need for the representative part of the parliament since
  that part of the citizenry which wants to be represented is now able to
  coherently represent itself. Those who do not want to be represented did
  not need the parliament in the first place.

- the software doesn't bias the submissions.
 
- information-theoretically and thermodynamically speaking, you can't beat
  it. If you consider society's inadequacies - like unequal distribution
  of food, housing, (insert your own issue to vote on here!), or 
  unconsulted expenditure of tax dollars on things the taxpayers do not
  want, as problems to be solved - then you have two computational engines
  available to solve it.

  * a few hundred brains in the heads of parliament, some of which are 
    of dubious ability and many of which can be assumed to be corrupt

  * millions of self-motivated and self-interested brains in the voting
    citizenry.

  The former engine has demonstrable lack of ability to learn in the long
  term, and has demonstrated predictive ability extending only up to the
  next election. The latter engine possesses orders of magnitude more
  processing power and diversity of approaches to problems, and has to
  live with its decisions - a powerful motivation for learning how to make
  good and far-sighted decisions.


The other point to note here is that any Indyvote (GPL) software that
might be developed has a massive testing base. It can be expected that
pranksters and saboteurs will be gleefully volunteering to find (or try to
make) holes in the software, and as such can be considered part of the
development team.

How would it work? I dunno... submit a pgp public key and become a voter?
Vote for the option you like the most. If you don't like any of them, add
your own option. If you don't care, don't vote. We wait for some period of
time (we could vote on the length of that too) to elapse and then pass the
outcome of the vote to the executive - which would be the voters again -
some of whom then have to put their hands up to do whatever was decided on
in the plebiscite, and could be paid out of tax at a rate determined in
the vote.

Hmmm... well, I'm sure there's gonna be problems, and I'm sure they're
fixable. I don't think it's possible to make it less representative,
costly or corrupt than the present pencil and paper system - its lack of
relevance is given away by the technology it uses. You think international
currency speculators use pencil and paper? No. 

It's time democracy grew up. Any programmers wanna synthesise some growth
hormone?


