Subject: forms, indymedia, democracy
From: <predator>

This is a partial reconstruct from memory of a post I did on melbourne
indymedia, which was shitcanned at my end (hey code heads, maybe a content
cache for the big part of the text submission stuff would be really
extremely good, if it possible to implement) by a braindamaged laptop I
own, which decided, just before I submitted, that it would go play with
its harddisk for fifteen minutes instead of accept mouse movements or
keystrokes.

It was prompted by a funny post done by someone who was taking the piss
out of the sort of posts that various activists were posting concerning
the violent police behaviour at the protests. see
http://melbourne.indymedia.org/display.php3?article_id=2363

Seeds of ideas found on indymedia have scattered widely. 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Someone raised the idea of a generic all-purpose form and someone else
suggested that catalyst geeks should code it into the indymedia site.

I don't know that such forms are a good idea. They can constrain a lot of
the refreshing, creative and diverse content which it is the indymedia
philosophy to really try to encourage, and which is, demonstrably, so much
better than the journalese and the (false) veneer of knowledgable
authority alluded to in the mainstream press and corporate broadcasting
industry. A multiple-choice type form is especially limiting, and I don't
think a fixed-format form is likely to be able to fit reality and all of
the permutations it presents to the people who contribute stories. (This
is quite apart from knowing some of the catalyst geeks are wearing their
fingerprints off keeping Indymedia going, and are juuust a little time
strapped at the moment).

Indymedia's form accommodates a lot of variation. You don't *have* to put
in anything in the address/fone number section. You can pack in a lot of 
stuff into it. I think that, for its purpose, it works very well. It's a
static contribution form, but anyone can make it dynamic by contributing
postings of contributing to the threads thereafter. In essence, the system
dynamically adapts. 

I do like the humourous aspect of the original post, and I agree that
being able to make a "fill-in-the-multi-choice-form" joke about highly
stylised and formal, parametricated stuff, like meaningless, braindead,
buzzword-encrusted corporate mission statements and yes, even complaints
from protesters wo seem to uniformly not like being beaten up by police
(Hmmm... I wonder why there's a commonality of style there?), is kind of
humourous, but it conceals a truth about such organisations too - they're 
too constrained to be creative.

But I have digressed. Back to the main point of the rant.

I think that there's unique opportunuity here which presents itself. Free
and particpatory media is one of the keystones of a true democracy.
Indymedia represents a starting point, a bag of seeds, an alternative
global news network which has distributed itself across the planet and is
the precursor of what will eventually, in my opinion, come to replace to
corporate un-news. Darwinian selection demands the death of the
centralised, sanitised and censored appropriately oxymoronic "old news".  

Free media, alone, without the coupled infrastructure to actually enable
people to organise to execute the new directions which come from the
read it and who are exposed to the errors and inadequacies of the
existing systems, is at best capable of generating only half a democracy.

The technology behind indymedia can and should be turned to yet another
use... returning enfranchisement to the citizenry.

Additional to participatory media, we really should have the other half of
participatory democracy, and that is online continuous, issue-driven,
voluntary, secure plebiscites - electronic direct democracy.

Since we have a parliament which is invalid, see recent posts on melbourne
indymedia - http://melbourne.indymedia.org/display.php3?article_id=2148
perhaps its time to implement a real-time, participatory electronic
democratic voting system. I think the php-postgreSQL engine behind the
Indymedia sites is probably up to the task, and the code could be
distributed freely as authenticated source *and* binaries.


I do not think this would be step backward, given the profoundly
useless demonstrably corruptable system as it currently stands. 
I think it has the following advantages:

- 50% of people have net access in their homes in this country, and
  there's lots of public access terminals in net cafe's and such, so the
  infrastructure exists already. Additional infrastructure can be cheaply
  had since there's 600,000 computers, many of which are quite usable,  
  going to landfill every year. I don't know the figures for other
  countries.

- You can have a cross platform gui like indymedia, free and open source
  browsers and OS, text if you like. postgreSQL and php are free and scale
  to handle monster-sized databases. 

- Since voting would be 24-h and continuously available the demand for
  vote registration infrastructure would be spread over a long period, so
  no need to do it all on one day.

- the source code can be open, and verified as non-tampered-with
  by checksums, self-validation, etc

- The server can be distributed, eliminating the vulnerability of having
  one place where vote data could be destroyed.

- protocols like ssl exist to make tampering in transit very difficult.

- disk space is cheap (cf: tonnes of paper) and reliable (error correction
  and RAIDs) and data able to be mirrored. Comms are reliable and can be
  configured to be cheap (despite what the corporate telcos say)

- security protocols exist for encryption, authentication, nonrepudiation
 
- you can vote anonymously, provide your own encryption key

- eliminates the need for the representative part of the parliament since
  that part of the citizenry which wants to be represented is now able to
  coherently represent itself. Those who do not want to be represented did
  not need the parliament in the first place.

- the software doesn't bias the submissions.
 
- information-theoretically and thermodynamically speaking, you can't beat
  it. If you consider society's inadequacies - like unequal distribution
  of food, housing, (insert your own issue to vote on here!), or 
  unconsulted expenditure of tax dollars on things the taxpayers do not
  want, as problems to be solved - then you have two computational engines
  available to solve them:

  * a few hundred brains in the heads of parliament, some of which are 
    of dubious ability and many of which can be assumed to be corrupt
   
  or

  * millions of self-motivated and self-interested brains in the voting
    citizenry.

  The former engine has demonstrable lack of ability to learn in the long
  term, and has demonstrated predictive ability extending only up to the
  next election. The latter engine possesses orders of magnitude more
  processing power and diversity of approaches to problems, and has to
  live with its decisions - a powerful motivation for learning how to make
  good and far-sighted decisions. 


The other point to note here is that any Indyvote (GPL) software that
might be developed has a massive testing base. It can be expected that
pranksters and saboteurs will be gleefully volunteering to find (or try to
make) holes in the software, and as such can be considered part of the
development team. Free. 

I imagine a good test bed for such software would be in the distributed
anarchosyndicates which make up indymedia nodes themselves.

How would it work? I dunno... submit a pgp public key and become a voter?
Vote for the option you like the most. If you don't like any of them, add
your own option. If you don't care, don't vote. We wait for some period of
time (we could vote to decide the length of time, too) to elapse and then
pass the outcome of the vote to the executive - which would be the voters
again - some of whom then have to put their hands up to do whatever was
decided on in the plebiscite, and could be paid out of tax at a rate
determined in the vote.

Hmmm... well, I'm sure there's gonna be problems, and I'm sure they're
fixable. I don't think it's possible to make it less representative,
costly or corrupt than the present pencil and paper system - its lack of
relevance is given away by the technology it uses. You think international
currency speculators use pencil and paper? No. 

More than anything else, it is not energy or materials which govern
living systems such as biological organisms or societies - it is
information. It's time the populace reclaimed their control thereof.

It's time a real participatory democracy grew up, emerging green and lush,
an unstoppable weed, from the arthritic state carcase of the old. Any
programmers from the global indymedia pool wanna help us synthesise some
growth hormone? 

<Y>es
<N>o
<A>dd your own suggestion 


<predator>
