File : devine1.txt
Cont : Commentry on Miranda Devine's article in SMH, p16, Nov 15 2001

Consider this, she says, as her first line.

Ok, I will. Even though my immediate response is to say, "Oh, for God's
sake, won't she shut up until such time as she acquires a clue?"

It's astounding. Any disaster which happens anywhere in America is now
automatically down to terrorists. Flat tyre? Terrorists! Burnt toast?
Anti-globalisation computer whizzes have hacked into your toaster! Cut
yourself shaving? Oh, it's that Bin Laden guy exerting a satanic influence
on your razor. It's getting very, very tiring.  

A plane goes down and crashes on a suburb in New York. Hardly surprising,
is it? New York was, until recently, had rather a lot of planes flying
near it. Planes do crash occasionally, and what they crash on is largely
determined by the routes which they fly. They still fly near New York, and
it should really be safer, since two of the major aviation hazards have
been removed, although this was done in the least-optimal way imaginable.
That explains the where. Let's look at the when and why of aircraft
accidents.

The statistics are a bit messy, but comprehensible. If you have one
aircraft with a mean time between failures of n years, properly
maintained, then you can expect that the plane _will_ exibit a failure at
least once within a n-year service life, on average. Things eventually
break, it's intrinsic to the nature of imperfectly manufactured materials
when you repeatedly twist, bend, shear, heat, and cool them, which is what
happens to aircraft materials when you take off, fly and land, day in day
out, year after year. Of course, since some failures will occur sooner
rather than later than the n-year average, it follows that if you have,
say, 10000 such aircraft with this failure rate operational around the
world at any given time, then in the course of a decade you are much less
likely to need to wait n years to elapse before you experience a failure
in the field. In the field, by the way, is also where you hope the failed
aircraft ends up. When it lands on a town, as happened some years back in
Lockerbie, it's even more tragic than if it lands in the field and
extinguishes the unfortunate lives of the passengers.

It's even messier than MTBF. Planes are made of individual parts, all of
which have their own mean times between failure, and the failure of one
part might not matter a bit, but the failure of another part will
seriously alter the plane's ability to stay in the air. And the failure
rates change as the parts age. Some parts wear out, some of them
work-harden and become more resiliant. That's why it's hard to predict.
Failures happen but it's hard to say exactly when.

Of course many aircraft are not properly maintained, despite the best
efforts of their maintenance engineers, for any of a range of reasons,
from company cost-cutting to fraudulent records kept for service times of
various spare parts, some of which might even be inferior-quality fakes.

While on _average_ it might take a plane ten, twenty years of service to
break in a catastrophic manner, that doesn't mean that individual planes
will not break in advance of that average, nor last longer than average
prior to failure. In fact it's expected that some of them will, and by how
much is known to some extent. In statistics it's called, uh, standard
deviation. It's quantifiable. There's engineering and math journals
devoted to the subject.

Maybe standard deviation is a term which should be introduced to describe
corporate journalists, insofar as deviation from truth is a standard to
which some of them adhere with something approaching religious dedication.
 
Technically speaking, crashing into the Pentagon does not rate as an
aerospatial engineering failure, it rates as a navigation error, whereas
an engine spitting a titanium-alloy blade into the cabin, or a tail
segment coming off from metal fatigue or whatever (aluminium alloys have a
calculable and limited number of flexion cycles they can tolerate before
undergoing fracture) does constitute failure. If a plane has a failure,
and it's a serious one, it will hit the planet. If the plane is flying
over America, on an American commuter route, it will hit something in
America, as I mentioned. This does not mean it is a terrorist attack.

There are also engineering journals devoted to analysis of failure of
complex systems generally. Take, say, oil refineries, of which there are
several thousand around the world. They blow up occasionally, generally
due to sloppy maintenance or operation beyond their design or intended
lifespan. Tank farms catch fire (we had one do that in Coode Island,
Melbourne, some years back) or a big LPG cylinder gets a bit too warm and
undergoes a BLEVE, incinerates everything within fifty metres and deposits
itself in another suburb. Bhopal happened for Union Carbide. Three-Mile
Island and Tschernobyl happpened for the nuclear industry. Failures happen
in a squillion different industries for generally a small number of kinds
of reasons, which are amenable to statistical analysis. However, it
appears that journalists now think that any plane crash, refinery blow-up,
reactor melt-down or stock-market fluctuation is directly attributable to
a chap with a turban, a copy of the Q'ran and a broken Phillishave.
Poor things, failling prey to their own lies.

Anyway. Miranda's non-penetrating insight of the week is this:

"We do know that there are disturbing similarities between the
anti-globalisation/anti-capitalism forces and Osama bin Laden's
terrorists. They have a shared aim" (notice the military terminology
creeping in) "similar diffuse, global structure" (as do any of a plethora
of multinational corporations) "similar methods and a shared vocabulary of
extreme violence and holy war." 

Normally I'd work a bit harder on this last comment but all I can muster
is, in the most bored sigh you can think of, "bullshit, Miranda."

Will somebody please, please drop her keyboard into the document shredder?

It's de rigeur for mainstream journos to slag-off the Internet, but when
they want to say something nasty and not have it attributed to them,
they'll pull the following sort of trick. Quoting "New Statesman" she
mentions by proxy, without providing a complete URL to counter the
possibility that the whole quote is a fabrication, that someone (!) on a
chatroom (!!) on urban75.org mentioned "... could this shift from military
to economic targets herald a new era of co-operation between radical
groups of completely different ideologies? By this I mean religious
fundamentalist and anti-capitalist factions."

You might as well say that because I bought a bag of peanuts from the
Islamic guy on the corner store, this means I am forging economic
links with the pro-jihad movement. 

Like a prolonged operation with no anaesthetic, she goes on. 

"Similarities between fundamentalists and anti-capitalists are
increasingly being noted". 

No, they're not being noted. Associations between people in particular
demographics, and behaviours they have never exhibited are being _created_
out of thin air, and these associations actually hold no real correlation.
For example, if Dumbo is a pink elephant and all elephants are pink does
NOT mean that everything pink is necessarily an elephant, unless of course
you have serious problems understanding cause, effect, and correlation
generally, as Hari (quoted by Miranda) evidently does.

These systematic misunderstandings are repeated as insight and fact by
corporate toady journalists with no independant analytical abilities or
faculties for critical thinking. They're _not_ being observed. Quoting
Johann Hari from New Statesman (again) - where you too can pick up a
throwaway line for mindless parroting at 45c a word - she mentions the
following brain-fart masquerading as perceptive journalism. I cringe to
mention it here, but I have to, so you'll know what I'm pulling apart:

"Both movements are supported predominantly by young activists
disillusioned or repulsed by US-style materialism and profiteering. The
New York and Washington suicide bombers were middle-class, educated men
from comparitively wealthy backgrounds: both the anti-globalisation
activists and jihadists are movements of the wealthy that claim to speak
on behalf of the poor. Both hold the destruction - or at least the
crippling - of US power (and that of its supposed subsidiaries the WTO and
the World Bank) as a fundamental goal."

There's a nice, specific description, inclusive of oh, I dunno, at least 
50 percent of the population.

Are you young? Are you an activist (as opposed to an apathete, which is
what you should be... shuddup, obey, consume, die)? Disillusioned?  
Repulsed by US-style materialism? Are you from a comparitively (whatever
that means) wealthy background? Or are you middle class? Or educated? Or
male? If you answered yes to any of these, then you're obviously
interested in bringing down the US, the WTO and the world bank... just the
sort of nasty dude we should stick in the slammer where you'll be free and
safe, where Wackenhut can get rich keeping an eye on you.

Given logic like this, I guess you could also keep a straight face and say
that anyone equipped with a penis is to be assumed to be a rapist waiting
to happen.


Let's take someone who fits all of these demographic indicators. It's a
small sample, so statistically it's not particularly valid. That sample,
dear readers, is me.

I'm not so young any more, but I'm all of those other things. Male,
disillusioned, from a comparitively wealthy background, educated, atheist,
anarchist, wears a beard, rah rah rah. I'm trained as a synthetic organic
chemist. Also as a biochemist, with a touch of molecular genetics and
virology. I'm licensed to use explosives, and have used them to flatten
buildings and open safes (the latter was for testing purposes and done
under supervision, from the manufacturers, you understand). Given
earmuffs, I'm comfy with heavy calibre firearms, for a few minutes at
least. I can drive a transmission electron microscope and a cathode ray
oscilloscope and play with live mains electrical systems with confidence.
I have a history of exploring vulnerable infrastructure for fun... tunnels
with important things in them, like communications cables, or the water
supply for the city, or whatever. In addition, I strongly feel that the
present implementation of democracy in Australia is a failure, and that
corporate capitalism is destroying our society and the ecosystem. All the
pieces are there. In theory, I should be locked up, demographically I am a
danger to my fellow human being.

The article gets even worse. She quotes the (how much of this article DID
she write anyway?) International Herald Tribune, where someone callled
Reginald Dale writes 

"Even if their tactics are different in scale and in nature, there is a
not entirely coincidental synergy between the actions of terrorists and
the aims of the anti-globalisation forces."

Synergy. Well, of course. When participatory democracy is so effectively
neutered, when economic muscle is used to starve and crush entire
societies, when the media is owned by the same sort of organisations as
perpetrate most of the world's atrocities (corporations and governments)
it is hardly surprising that oppressed persons from all walks of life
start using the only tactics remaining to them against a common
oppressor, and not at all surprising that they will have some political
or objectival similarities. I think a ten year old would deduce this in
about half a second.

I ride a motorcycle, I wear a black leather jacket and camouflage army
pants, and I have a beard. I smell bad, most days, ever since I painfully
lost a cherished armpit hair in a roll-on deodorant accident for which I
am still waiting to be compensated by Lever-Rexona. I am one of those
people your parents warned you about. I fit all of the parameters required
of the terrorist stereotype, so why don't I blow shit up? Why don't I
isolate some nasty bug from a dab of chook shit, culture it up, render it
immune to antibiotics and contaminate, say, a confectionary plant with it?
Why don't I synthesise a bunch of volatile organophosphorus esters and
release them into the air conditioning intakes at the local tax office?
Why don't I throw lengths of chain over the fence of the local power
switchyards? Why don't I do all these nasty things as someone fitting my
description is evidently expected to do? Why don't I even go to the
rallies and demonstrations or even vote any more?

Well, I am at peace with it all. There's two reasons. First and foremost
is, to do any of these things changes nothing significant in the long
term. Politicians continue to lie, resources continue to be depleted, and
they wage bigger wars than I ever could. The WTC attacks will not change
humanity's destination in the long term, though it might change how, and
how fast, we get there.

Second is, I have faith, but not in god. Not in the free market, nor in
democracy as we experience it. I have faith in a particular -ism, whose
chapters I've read in stone tablets, where I've watched aeons of
geological time elapse before me in the layers of sediments, embedded in
which are the microscopic skeletons of organisms which were so successful
in their niche that they overpopulated it, polluted it, and extincted
themselves. 

It's the -ism which fundamentalism, anti-capitalism, journalism, and all
the other belief systems cower before, which cannot be tinkered with or 
rendered feckless by lawyers or corrupt legislatures, and which will not
negotiate with anyone. It's called Darwinism. Survival of the fittest,
which in this case is, survival of those societies smart enough not to
destroy themselves just as did hundreds before it. The American empire
will fall as have empires all fallen before it. No need to push.
 
My take is, Homo Sapiens Capitalis is slowly, inexorably, floating down to
the cutting room floor of history. By strangling its own democracy, it's
strangling itself. It has no need of my assistance. It is right and
fitting that an organism smart enough to wipe itself out, but not smart
enough not to wipe itself out, drowns in its own waste as the remnants of
the ecosystem it poisoned falls down around it - objectives we are
achieving as fast as we can.

When the US economy, insatiably ravenous for hydrocarbons, is eventually
starved of them, leading to collapse of its agriculture and its economy,
we will doubtless read that the thermodynamic realities of geotectonics
and hydrocarbon petrology are also the result of commies, or
anti-capitalist activists, or Darwinian fundamentalists too. 

Nope. Simple math, and Malthus saw it all coming, too, centuries ago.

So, I guess I should let her rant. She'll perish with the rest, forgotton
amongst the legions of hacks ignorant of statistics, genetics, physics,
thermodynamics or anything else which might serve as a tool for acquiring
a true understanding of the world. It is right, fitting and inevitable.
In the bigger scheme of things, clueless excuses for journalists, much
like my long lost armpit hair, do not really matter.

