File: DNA_code.txt
Cont:
      0) The nature of the processor and its tasks.
      
      1) The processor is a search algoithm operating in combinatorial space
         for solutions which are optimised for processor replication under 
         some set of externally imposed parameters.

      2) hypothesis concerning the likely reasons for which the genetic
         code is a 4-base, 3-base per codon system, instead of some other 
         n-base, m-base per codon system.

      3) analysis of the point mutation probabilities for conversion of
         one codon into another in DNA : probability of conversion of one
         codon into another by mutation; why degeneracy is distributed as
         it is (cost of aa vs. redundancy). The current genetic code has
         been optimised so that silent errors are materially cheap.


0) The nature of the processor.

Carbon-based living systems are well-informed thermodynamic engines, or,
put another way, heat-dissipating information processors. They typically
combine two kinds of general grammars and machine implementations.

The first grammar is stored in whatever sections of DNA encode the pairing
loops of various transfer RNAs. It is of the finite enumerable type,
containing list of acceptable expressions (the genetic code). In
executable form, it is exposed to perform a molecular recognition task, in
the tRNAs which execute the function of a look-up table during pairing to
codons on mRNA, during peptide synthesis in ribosomes. 

The second grammar is stored in whatever sections of DNA encode genes and
which, in turn, encode tRNA, rRNA and proteins. It is of the general
recursive type, able to encode a range of computable functions (tasks
performed by genes) which have been computed in previous iterations of the
processor (the evolutionary progenitors of the current system under
study). In executable form, it operates to encode a range of peptides.  
After considerable post-synthesis processing (derivatisation, folding,
etc) these peptides form an extremely diverse range of
information-intensive tasks, ranging from signal detection and
amplification, photon capture, molecule sorting and mass transfer
(generally across membranes, ranging from subatomic particles such as
protons, through a range of specific ionic and molecular species, all the
way up to large molecules such as lipids, carbohydrates and nucleotides,
for instance) and three-dimensional topological tasks such as folding,
packing, cutting and rejoining. Importantly, the information embedded into
the molecular architecture of the proteins also contains the effective
procedures for chemical synthesis, self-assembly, modification, repair or
destruction of selected parts of processor subcomponentry and even for
deciding if conditions warrant that these tasks be started, stopped or
regulated in some way.




1) The processor runs a search algorithm operating in combinatorial space
for solutions which are optimised for processor replication efficiency
under some set of externally imposed parameters.


Darwinian selection is a recursive search algorithm by which a range of
partial solutions are pitted (pass or fail) in parallel against their
respective problems for best fit; passable groups of solutions generally
become the feedstock for the next iteration of the search algorithm. This
process of selection tends to create partly optimised solutions, which
benefit the replication efficiency of the organism embodying the solution.

Since the test criteria are continually changing, in part becase the
output of the last iteration may be included in the testing criteria in
some way, it is unlikely that the conditions will exist which would bring
the search for a fully optimised solution to a halt (in the Turing
eidentschung sense) though a great many searches will prove futile. Many
parts of combinatorial space exist which do not permit the processor to
reproduce but do not render the organism inoperative. Some environments
reconfigure the processor in such a way as renders it incapable of further
processing, for example, a chemical or thermal environment which pushes
the processor over its error catastrophe threshold.

It is of significance to note that in some cases the processor is
completely self-contained and recursive in its nature (autotrophic),
needing no external information processing to function, and operating
entirely on information-denunded physical substrates (such as sunlight,
simple diatomic gases, water and simple ions dissolved therein). 

When an organism asexually reproduces, if one assumes an error-free
replication process, then the organism is necessarily a Quine insofar as
it creates a copy of its own source code as part of the output of its
operation, in its daughter cell.

Perhaps this kind of organism could be referred to as a bootstrapped
Quine.

It is also often overlooked that a reproducing organism will not simply
hand on to its progeny a pile of DNA. It must, necessarily, hand on a
suite of proteins, membrane-bound compartments, nutrients, energy, and
embedded in that suite of materials is information about how to continue
to perform the processing tasks required to operate and reproduce - in
other words, it also creates the machinery required to execute this source
code.



1) The nature of the coding system.

Deoxyribose Nucleic Acid is the agent of storage and transmission of
inherited information in all biological replicating systems currently
known to science. Even information transmitted by non-nucleotidyl systems,
such as stereospatial conversion information embedded in the quad
alpha-helix bundles typical of prions is, in the first instance, partly
stored nucleotidylly in the genes encoding the primary structure of the
peptide involved (PrP), and also in the genes encoding those protein
chaperones which enable the peptide to correctly aquire its tertiary
structure.

In most cases so far observed, information flow for synthesis exclusively 
flows in the following direction (the Central Dogma):

		DNA --> RNA --> proteins

and information for invokation and cancellation of these synthesis jobs
flows mainly in the opposite direction: 

	        DNA <-- RNA <-- proteins
  
Mediating information flow in both directions is a task performed
primarily by proteins, which are in turn encoded in the very DNA and RNA
which they largely manage.
 

While the coding system used in DNA has long been known, and the
relationship between a given codon and its respective amino acid has also
been deduced, an important aspect of the nucleic acid information system
have been overlooked.

The DNA codon schema can be referred to as a "m of n" system, where n is
the number of possible bases types and m is the number of spaces available
for use in forming a codon from any of the available n bases. For systems
which use Watson-Crick pairing, n must be an even and cardinal number.

It follows that in the possible space of coding systems, for a
given n and m, there will exist coding space for n^m codons. DNA uses four
bases and three bases per codon, and therefore contains a code space with 
64 elements. 

If Darwinian selection is a process of partial optimisation, one can
assume after some arbitrarily long time that there will be optimisations
evolved into the processor engine underpinning it. 

































