Continuing on from Graeme's documentation:

We had some problems with the initial install put down to dodgy RAM.
We reinstalled the machine as _invitro_.

To install a new package on Debian, there are two ways:

-pulling it down from an ftp site and farting around with dependancies

-dselect : presents huge list of packages you might want. Good for 
           recommedations about which packages work well with what you
           have...

-apt : apt-get, which has no menu but doesn't need it.

First thing we did was install sudo, using:
apt-get install sudo

Then we installed ssh, in much the same way: 
apt-get install ssh

We also wanted to install debconf, to replace debconf-tiny:
apt-get install debconf


And a couple of texty html browsers:

apt-get install links
apt-get install lynx


Maffew invoked scp at ollie as root to get the sudoers file from ollie
while in the root directory in invitro

scp root@ollie:/etc/sudoers .

The sudoers file on invitro had a bunch of irrelevant stuff deleted.

We installed a friendly pico-like text editor :

apt-get install nano

We wanted to install apache (the web server) so first we looked to see if
it was there:

dpkg -I apache

said it wasn't there so we apt-getted it:

sudo apt-get install apache

It barfed, so we looked in 

/etc/apache

for the config file:

sudo nano httpd.conf

So we told it the server name, was invitro.cat.org.au

Then we started the http service by going to

cd /etc/init.d

and telling it as root:

apache start


Then

lynx localhost 

returned a default webpage.


We invoked ls --color

to enable us to see the directories in colour but this does not stick on
bootup. To make it stick we nicked a bunch of defaults from ollie.

scp maffew@ollie /etc/profile .


Databases:

Postmaster (postgres) was running. What about php?

dpkg -I php3

Mentioned that it was there, but we wanted php4.

apt-cache search php4

gave us a list of lots of options, many of which we chose all of them
except snmp.


sudo apt-get install php4-pgsql php4 php4-imap php4-ldap php4-mysql
php4-xml 


We were asked if we wanted to run the apache config script since apache
needs to know about the newly installed php4 stuff. We said yes.



Maffew whipped together a script to see if apache would serve up a
php-generated html phpinfo() file.

This demonstrated some weirdnesses concerning the extensions on some of
the files which php uses.


We have a lot of migration and system and other stuff to do.

Plan: move box to TWS. Reconfigure remotely.
