File: dolearmy.txt

Cont: comments on the "Dole Army" episode on A Current Affair, Mon Feb 4 2k2


A lot was made of the fact that the Dole Army members don't show their
faces. Well so what. They shouldn't have to. By definition, the unemployed
are not actually people with faces, which is why the individuals who make
it up are always referred to in the plural form. They. Them. Those. You're
just a number at whatever the CES is called nowadays.

Why would you work in a society like this one? Let me assure you, it
wouldn't be for the money, the hours, or the conditions. You might do it
if you thought there was a future in it, or that by doing the work you
scratched a personal itch.  Or if you were going to starve if you didn't.

Bingo. 

Now you know why a couple of billion people - in those places which like
to call themselves "Free Countries" - get up at evil hours every morning
and go to work most days of their lives. It's because, they'll starve if
they don't. This is freedom?


I live but once, and I would prefer to live MY life, instead of someone
else's designated career template. My life plan does not involve being
told what to do all the time. I have not updated my Curriculum Vitae ever
since it dawned on me that I should not think of myself as a product
(though in some ways I very definately am one) and therefore I should not
publish a product specification. If people want to know about me, they
should have the common courtesy and decency to enquire of me in person.
You shouldn't believe everything you read, and CVs are no exception.

By and large, like the dole army membership, I do not work, either. I am
in formal, bureaucratised, accounted-for, casual paid employment for about
one month of the year. For the rest of it, I'm doing things which other
people might call work, but for which I am not paid. Running an ISP.
Chopping lantana out of bushland. All the usual domestic chores - washing
dishes, laundering clothes. Sometimes I do jobs which people pay for with
cash. Other jobs I do are paid for with goods in kind - computer hardware,
food, tools, books.

Some people have levelled the charge at me that I am lazy, and I
agree with them. I do exactly as much work as I want to, which is an
extraordinary freedom in this age where most of the people who live near
me undergo self-inflicted slavery to feed an addiction to useless consumer
junk. I do not level the reciprocal charge at them that they work too hard
for too little reward, since they suffer this too. They pay rent, and
taxes. To reproach the slaves their bondage is not within the scope of
a free man who recognises the value of his freedom. 

The government, whom I did not help to elect, and whose laws were enacted
without public consultation, does not pay me anything. I have been in the
fortunate position of never having been so desperate as to require their
management of my life. I would have said assistance, but social security
payments do not, in general, provide this, in part because their
assistance is contingent on the total devastation of one's finances first.
Sell your assets, then come and see us.

I do not want to pay rent, because at its present levels, it is a moral
obscenity, and squatting is a great alternative. Unbeknownst to the chap
in whose building we live, his building is much safer, cleaner and in
better repair than when he abandoned it ten years ago - we've sealed the
roof, mended the floors, fixed the plumbing, reconnected the electricity
(for which we pay), unblocked the sewer, installed fire safety equipment,
and we also maintain the garden. By not scouring us for rent, and
providing us with (almost) a roof over our head, he benefits us. So we
benefit him. No taxes involved. Kropotkin's mutual aid.

My formal employment does not keep me in the style to which I am
(becoming) accustomed, so I also do jobs for cash. Which is great. I
charge GST (its the law, don'tcha know?), as various companies demand I
do, and redirect it on things which I, and not the government, consider
useful for society - for example, feeding myself.

I do not want to pay income tax. I would, if I was sure it was spent on
things which had some clear benefit to my society or my environment. It
is not spent on this, so I try to avoid it, for in paying it I become an
accessory to the organised crime which effectively passes for government
these days.

I do not avoid paying income tax simply because of my distaste for seeing
my money go somewhere else where but rather because of two things : I have
no control over what it is spent upon, and also because some of the things
it is spent upon are criminally insane. Haywire nuclear submarines which
are useless even when they do work. Gaols to imprison people for actions
which, legal today, will be considered criminal tomorrow. Superannuation
for parliamentarians. Subsidies for massively profitable corporations,
some of which pollute the air, water or soil, and others that chop down
and dredge up the things which grow in the latter two. The Australian
Taxation Office has become so efficient in its tracking of taxable income
that I have no other avenue of political protest than to simply not earn a
quantity worthy of their poaching.


Let's be quite clear about this. Rorting the social security system is the
duty of the righteous citizen, because it is fair and reasonable for the
righteous citizen to try and reclaim what has been stolen through
taxes which are undemocratically extracted from the citizen in the first
place.

All of us have money forcibly removed from us, from birth onwards until an
unspecified period after our death, by the government (taxes on us and our
estates, if we have any) and by corporations (profit). Without our say so.
We then subsequently have no say in what this money is spent on. This is
theft.

This differs in some ways, but not fundamentally, from having your wallet
pinched by a pickpocket, and its contents spent by them subsequently. The
pickpocket is less damaging to the citizen for the following reasons.

0) The pickpocket does not need to build an office or tie people's lives
up unproductively by helping them to pretend to work in a bureaucracy.

1) The pickpocket generally takes your money only once. 

2) the pickpocket does not waste your time making you fill in forms in
order to lose said money.

3) The pickpocket does not, in general, spend this money building nuclear
materials facilities, detention centres, monuments to their own greatness,
whole herds of white infrastructural elephants (olympic sports stadia) or
subsidising already wealthy corporations.

4) You can control how much the pickpocket steals by choosing to carry a
small amount of money.

The ATO does not differ from the pickpocket's modus operandi in any other 
matters of significance. Taxation is theft. Getting any money back from
the government is a victory. They're only getting back what was robbed
from their parents before them.

For every member of the dole army there exists a few thousand dollars
which did NOT assist in the installation of speed cameras, or the
operation of the police service, the judiciary, the legislature, or other
such imposts.

I note that the interviewer, a certain Martin King, claimed he paid about
half his income (which, incidentally, he didn't bother to quantify) as
taxes. The manner in which he delivered this factoid implied, amazingly,
that such massive theft was something *other* people should aspire to
undergo, too. Parity of suffering, right? 

Martin complained that he supported the Dole Army members. He is right to
complain about this, but this is not the central idea in his claim -
Martin is upset that his income and other taxes are spent on something he
doesn't _want_ them spent on. Well, Marty, the logical solution is to stop
paying. If the only way to legally avoid income tax is to not earn an
income, what's wrong with that? You won't starve, you know. Dumpster food
is plentiful and nutritious, I know, I eat it. 

Marty's employer, a certain Kerry Packer, doesn't pay any income tax. I
guess you've got to keep the idea from spreadding, right Kerry?

I observed perhaps too closely the footage of employment minister Tony
Abbot: I note the minister types with two fingers. Slowly. While he looks
at the keyboard. We have an employment minister who cannot do what any
computer-literate high-school graduate can do with their eyes shut. I
wonder, can he sign his own name, or does he employ someone else to apply
to his correspondance a rubber stamp with his signature on it?

I don't watch a lot of TV. I notice Mike Munroe's collar has enlarged
again since I last saw his show. Iodine deficiency? Perhaps, which would
also account for the fact that he stated that ACA did not pay anyone for
the interview. Well, that's wrong. They did, hopefully, pay the
interviewer (Martin King), although rather less than the market value of
his work. TV companies do this as a matter of course. ACA were paid for
the program, of course - advertisers pay hundreds of thousands of
dollars per minute for the audiences that stories like the Dole Army
attract to the screens. A nice little earner.

Work is *not* being a stockbroker or TV show host, but these excuses for
employment are handsomely remunerated, even after taxation. Real work is
digging holes in the ground, changing nappies, explaining algebra to
schoolkids, cooking meals, laying bricks, driving a truck for 14 hours
straight - and most of these jobs get paid bugger all by comparison to
jobs wherein the employed produces nothing.

ACA - as Hinch used to say - Shame Shame Shame!

"Dealing with centrelink IS working for the dole." -Melbournian Graffiti


Cheeries....

<predator>
