From vignes@monaco.mc Fri Mar 23 00:25:14 2001
Date: Sat, 17 Mar 2001 12:02:53 +0000
From: Peter Webster <vignes@monaco.mc>
To: drugnews@psychedelic-library.org, drugnews@yahoogroups.com,
     list@psychedelic-library.org
Subject: MAPS: [] ! Message from Gary Webb, NARCONEWS

    [ The following text is in the "iso-8859-1" character set. ]
    [ Your display is set for the "US-ASCII" character set.  ]
    [ Some characters may be displayed incorrectly. ]


http://www.narconews.com/webbletter.html

  Sign Up for Free Mailing List
   Narco News 2001
  "Why the Lawsuit?
  To Silence Him"

  A Message From Gary Webb

"Make no mistake. This court fight isn't about any particular story 
NarcoNews has done. It's about ALL of them, and all of the ones yet to 
come. And it's a battle over the continued independence of Internet 
journalism as well. The silencing of Al Giordano and NarcoNews isn't a 
theoretical possibility that might happen a couple years from now. It's 
already happening. Al and his volunteer lawyers are hip-deep in it right 
now. And they need our help."

  - Pulitzer Prize Winning Journalist Gary Webb

  March 16, 2001

  Dear Friend,

  Not long after I wrote a series for the San Jose Mercury News about a 
drug ring that had flooded South Central Los Angeles with cheap cocaine at 
the beginning of the crack explosion there, a strange thing happened to me. 
I was silenced.

This, believe it or not, came as something of a surprise to me. For 17 
years I had been writing newspaper stories about grafters, crooked bankers, 
corrupt politicians and killers -- and winning armloads of journalism 
awards for it. Some of my stories had convened grand juries and sent 
important people to well-deserved jail cells. Others ended up on 20/20, and 
later became a best-selling book (not written by me, unfortunately.) I 
started doing television news shows, speaking to college journalism classes 
and professional seminars. I had major papers bidding against each other to 
hire me.

So when I happened across information implicating an arm of the Central 
Intelligence Agency in the cocaine trade, I had no qualms about jumping 
onto it with both feet. What did I have to worry about? I was a 
newspaperman for a big city, take-no-prisoners newspaper. I had the First 
Amendment, a law firm, and a multi-million dollar corporation watching my back.

Besides, this story was a fucking outrage. Right-wing Latin American drug 
dealers were helping finance a CIA-run covert war in Nicaragua by selling 
tons of cocaine to the Crips and Bloods in LA, who were turning it into 
crack and spreading it through black neighborhoods nationwide. And all the 
available evidence pointed to the sickening conclusion that elements of the 
US government had known of it and had either tacitly encouraged it or, at a 
minimum, done absolutely nothing to stop it.

And that's when this strange thing happened. The national news media, 
instead of using its brute strength to force the truth from our government, 
decided that its time would be better spent investigating me and my 
reporting. They kicked me around pretty good, I have to admit. (At one 
point, I was even accused of making movie deals with a crack dealer I'd 
written about. The DEA raided my film agent's office looking for any scrap 
of paper to back up this lie and appeared disappointed when they came up 
emptyhanded.)

To this day, no one has ever been able to show me a single error of fact in 
anything I've written about this drug ring, which includes a 600-page book 
about the whole tragic mess. Indeed, most of what has come out since shows 
that my newspaper stories grossly underestimated the extent of our 
government's knowledge, an error to which I readily confess. But, in the 
end, the facts didn't really matter. What mattered was making the damned 
thing go away, shutting people up, and making anyone who demanded the truth 
appear to be a wacky conspiracy theorist. And it worked.

As a result, the CIA was allowed to investigate itself, release a heavily 
censored report admitting that it had worked with cocaine traffickers, and 
simultaneously declare itself innocent of any wrongdoing. And that's where 
our firebrand national news media has let the matter lie to this day.

Now it's NarcoNews' turn for the silence treatment. And, if I had to guess, 
I'd venture to say that it's probably more important to the folks selling 
us the Drug War to shut up Al Giordano than it is to silence mainstream 
reporters who, in my father's eloquent words, wouldn't say shit if they had 
a mouth full of it. No one can lean on NarcoNews's editors, or their 
bosses, or its board of directors to reign Al in or, failing that, reassign 
him to the night copy desk. The only person they can lean on is Al, who 
doesn't take to being leaned on. And they can't shut down the Internet 
either. So two choices remain.

They can grit their teeth and suffer Al's reporting, day after aggravating 
day, as he exposes the ugly underside of this endless war on drugs - and 
actually makes things happen, like real journalists are supposed to do. Or 
they can try to make it impossible for him to do his job by harassing him 
with specious lawsuits, bedevil him with lawyers and depositions and 
interrogatories and subpoenas, and reduce him to penury. Why? To silence 
him. To make him go away. To keep him from looking under rocks that 
reporters aren't supposed to look under.

Make no mistake. This court fight isn't about any particular story 
NarcoNews has done. It's about ALL of them, and all of the ones yet to 
come. And it's a battle over the continued independence of Internet 
journalism as well. The silencing of Al Giordano and NarcoNews isn't a 
theoretical possibility that might happen a couple years from now. It's 
already happening. Al and his volunteer lawyers are hip-deep in it right 
now. And they need our help.

Narco News and Al Giordano face an April 9th deadline to respond to the 
Banamex censorship lawsuit or they will be declared in default - guilty 
without a single fact being heard in a case where the facts prove them right.

A civil lawsuit is different than a criminal case: complex legal issues 
require trained lawyers to dig through the law books on procedural issues 
so far from the basic truths about photographs of cocaine trafficking on 
the coast of Mexico. The bank's lawyers at Akin Gump are paid astronomic 
fees to raise every small point of process and delay the day when the facts 
come to light in New York City court. If this case goes to trial, that's 
when Narco News will triumph. And all of us will win with it as the real 
facts of the corruption of the international drug war come to light in the 
media center of New York.

The hard part comes right now, in navigating the maze of irrelevant process 
issues, as any reporter who has covered the courts has seen. Narco News 
will either be able to have skilled attorneys get them through this 
complicated phase or - I can see it coming - Al will have to take a long 
trip to the law library himself, abandon reporting for the coming weeks or 
months in order to wage his own defense. Then you and I will not be able to 
read new reports on Narco News at this key moment when Plan Colombia 
explodes regionally and more Latin American voices are raised against the 
drug war, like the Mexican police chief yesterday, who, if not for Narco 
News, would never be heard by those of us who speak and read in English.

That is what is at stake: Whether a skilled reporter has to retire for 
months to become a pro se lawyer, or whether he can continue reporting the 
facts to us. I was silenced but am not silenced any more. When, the other 
day, the film rights to my book Dark Alliance about US complicity in the 
cocaine trade were purchased for a television movie, I wrote Al to pledge 
part of those proceeds to his defense. In the years to come, there is no 
question that Narco News will be proven right and will be helping the next 
generation of reporters fight efforts to censor them.

But wouldn't it be wonderful if this time the censors failed entirely to 
take Al and Narco News out of circulation, for a year, for months, even for 
a week? Wouldn't that be the best deterrent against bankers and lobbyists 
from waging these frivolous lawsuits against Free Speech on the Internet? I 
understand that Narco News needs only about $13,000 more to be able to have 
the most difficult stage of the lawsuit process - that which it faces 
immediately - handled with professional legal assistance, thus allowing Al 
to continue expending his energy and time in reporting to us the facts. One 
person of means could solve this problem with a check. Two dozen people 
giving $500 could do it. 130 people giving a hundred dollarsâ^À¦ you can do 
the math: If half of Narco News' readers give one dollar each, Narco News 
will keep publishing. The hard part is that it must be done now, today. 
Please join me in sending a check to:

Drug War on Trial C/O Thomas Lesser, Esq.
Lesser, Newman, Souweine & Nasser
39 Main Street Northampton, MA 01060

Al often says that Narco News never wanted to ask its readers for a cent, 
and I sense that it pains him to ask the readers who benefit from his 
reporting to support his defense in court. That's why I'm writing you. This 
lawsuit is bigger than the fate of one Internet publication. It is larger 
than, but it will decide, free speech issues in cyberspace for years to 
come. What is at stake here is nothing less than whether the public knows 
the truth and the facts about the war on drugs in our hemisphere.

If we don't all act today, we will be in the dark again tomorrow,

Sincerely, Gary Webb Journalist


------------------
MAPS-Forum@maps.org, a member service of the Multidisciplinary Association
for Psychedelic Studies (to become a member, see www.maps.org/memsub.html).
To [un]subscribe, email the message text,
[un]subscribe maps-forum youraddress to majordomo@maps.org
List archives: www.cerebral.org/~law/Maps.html
Guidelines for authors: www.maps.org/guidelines.txt
MAPS Forum is supported by a generous grant from the Promind Foundation.
