From guyd@zip.com.au Thu Mar 11 22:07:56 2004
Date: Fri, 05 Mar 2004 02:07:40 +1100
From: Guy Dunphy <guyd@zip.com.au>
Reply-To: cave_clan@yahoogroups.com
To: cave_clan@yahoogroups.com
Subject: (C/C) NEWS FLASH! - Memoirs of the Secret Six

       The Memoirs of the Secret Six

       (A clarification, to 'News Flash')

    A shocking no-holds barred expose of the
    intrigues of the shadowy secret society

    Otherwise known as defending myself against
    viscious and unfair attacks and rumours.


On the Saturday evening after the 'Go North' expo, six people
went to investigate a location found by Diode (but not entered)
the previous weekend, while exploring before the Ward 21 party.
The six were: Curly, Onetel, Willow, FeNix, Sputnik, Diode.

The location turned out to be the best thing the Clan has ever
found. By a long, long way. It also presents some unique and
serious difficulties, in that access is both easy, and highly
problematical in several senses. It will also very likely only
be accessible for a relatively short period of time.

On discussion afterwards, the highly stoked, amazed and astounded
six decided that another expo should be run immediately, but with
as many attendees as seemed possible. About 20 persons seemed to
be the right number. And considering the site's unique risks,
it was felt that the expedition should be run with an absolute
maximum possible level of secrecy, stealth, and low coms profile.

So the six became the Secret Six, and their mission, to pick 14
names from the Clan lists, to join the next expo. For security,
invitees would not even be told the site's true nature or
location, until just before actually entering. They would be told
beforehand only that it was awsome, and the risks involved.
Even these details would only be given out on the evening of the
expo, to those actually attending. Mostly this reflects a doubt
of the privacy of email and phone, not the allegance of members.

Initially, it was agreed that the sole criteria for invitation
would be 'trustworthyness' - in the Clan sense. Stealth, secrecy,
reliability. Invitees would receive face to face invitations,
and be sworn to secrecy. Email and phone conversations to be kept
to a minimum, and to never mention the True Name of the site,
its nature, or even its Clan name.

Another aspect of the proposed expo evolved from the coincidence
that two of the initial six were what you'd call 'least likely to
be on an expo together' - but that it had surprisingly turned out
OK, perhaps due to the incredible goodliness of the site being just
too overpowering to allow for bothering with personal differences.
Even ones with very serious past and ongoing causes.
In discussion of this aspect, the idea arose to subtitle this the
'No Bullshit!' expo. An expo in which everyone would be expected to
leave their baggage at the door, for the sake of experiencing this
unique and probably very briefly available site.
It was unanimously agreed that this was a wonderful idea. If Diode
and Onetel could put their problems aside and be friendly, so could
everyone else.


So, the process of name selection began. Of course, it wasn't easy,
as you can imagine. Plenty of 'of course yes' names, but then there
are the ones that are a bit more undecided. People not well known,
those who don't come on many expos (or at least, with any of the Six.)
Who would inevitably tell who, regardless of secrecy. People who were
new in the clan, and unknown quantities. Mostly, it was all very clear
cut (if a bit troubling to me, in being so arbitrary and cliquey.)
At one point, it was thought that it might be best to run two expos,
but this was dropped for the reason that the second group might miss
out altogether. A lot of discussion went on, regarding the risks of
accessing the site, and consequences of discovery of Clan access.
The fact that the expo would likely run in parallel to another expo
was felt unfortunate, but unavoidable. Has to be done soon.


However, already there were cracks in the plan. Despite intentions
to remain coms secrecy, sufficient details got carelessly mentioned
in email among the six, for listeners to identify the location.
And the idea to go and visit invitees personally wasn't happening fast
enough - not to ensure they all reserved their Friday nights in time.
So some contacts were made by phone and email. All invitees still being
asked to not speak about it to others, but when told indirectly this
warning doesn't seem to carry much weight.


At this point, a few names had been mentioned as 'definately
no', and a few others 'maybe not'. (I think all this sucks btw,
you'll see where it leads.)
I had one name on my list that two others of the group had
initially objected to, for reasons that seemed both personal
(and hence supposedly discounted on the 'No Baggage' expo)
and overblown to me, and I had assumed could be smoothed over.
In all other respects - long term active and committed Clan
member, trustworthy, stealth, this name was spotless.

On Tuesday morning, I had sent a copy of my list of names to the
others, amongst some other expo doco. Two (Willow and Sputnik)
replied rapidly, with comments on each of the names. Both were
negative about one name in particular - Marauder. (See email
transcripts for details.) But I considered their reasons were
not serious, mostly personal dislike (hence discounted anyway
on this 'no baggage expo'), and not particularly significant.
Willow listed merely 'reservations', Sputnik was more detailed
in her objections.
I assumed that I could reassure them, and get their approval
when I next saw them. Considering how much Marauder has done
for the clan, and that I find him a very good exploring companion,
it didn't seem justified to exclude him on the basis of some
'reservations' and personal dislikes.

So, getting impatient with how long it was taking to warn
people about Friday, by Tuesday afternoon I phoned a few to
give them the minimal details. Including Marauder.
On Tues night the S6 group had a meeting, switched back on
short notice, without discussion, from Wed night by FeNix.
I'd also received an email from FeNix strongly objecting to
Marauder's inclusion, claiming that he was 'definately out',
(quoting Sput's earlier email as evidence) but adding no more
reasons or any mention of what he thought.

At the meeting, among other topics, FeNix, Willow and Sput
spent a lot of time browbeating me about why Marauder was
definately not acceptable to them. Reasons given first were
same as in the emails, but when I tried to defend him, and
point out that his listed 'sins' were things we'd all done
at one time or another, their criticism become more heated
and allegations more serious. And not matching at all with
my own experience.
There was another name I wanted (Blakjak), which was rejected
for reasons that were entirely spurious under the original
terms, which seemed to be getting twisted around to suit their
wishes as well. He was said to be 'not hardcore', which I took
as meaning 'not deserving'. I objected to this too, and in fact
later contacted Blakjak about going. Perhaps fortunately, he
was not available that night, and so no conflict.

Eventually, I realised that the three against Marauder were
adamant, and prepared to argue forever, while shifting their
reasons continually to evade debate. Their first reasons didn't
hold up (lock and fence cutting, etc), and they eventually fell
back to an accusation so ridiculous it was difficult to counter-
that he was dangerous, and liable to physically attack people
unpredictably. And might do so during the expo. So I gave up.

But what to tell Marauder, who's already invited. Big drama
when the 3 realise I've already invited him. So then they
suggest that I just lie to him - say there were too many people
and we had to cut down the numbers.
After which they add a few more names to the list.
Too much for Diode! When I pointed out how much this sucked,
and that I should just tell him the truth (they hate him),
Willow accuses me of causing trouble, and did I really want to.

Meeting ends at maybe 2am, with me not sure what to do about
this, but not at all happy. The feeling of being steamrollered,
of being ganged up on and made to accept unfair impositions
(and being pushed to lie to a friend) left a very bad taste.

So did the cigarette smoke. And quite a few bottles of beer had
been emptied too. Note to self: never again get involved in
'planning meetings' where alcohol is consumed.

On Wednesday, having thought about it, I decide the whole thing
was just too hypocritical and deceptive (the proposed lie), and
I wasn't going to take it. So wrote a letter beginning:
           ---------------------
Subject: Re: The new find - Marauder
OK, I've had time to think about the Marauder thing.

Here are my thoughts.

You all suck badly.
Your reasons suck. What you want me to do sucks. And I won't do it.
I won't betray a friend. Not even one who isn't particularly close.

About your reasons for excluding him:
  [lengthy snip, see transcripts]
            ----------------------

The rest of the email critiqued each anti-Marauder reason
they'd given in turn, with instances given of their own hypocricy
where I knew of it. Written while fairly pissed off, and not
attempting to be at all nice.

It finished with an ultimatum:
            ----------------------
So, what am I going to do?

You've got till Thursday midday to reconsider your position,
then you'll find out, if need be. Meet the 'no bullshit' Diode.
Only thing I'll say now, is I won't jeopardise the expo.

PS. The clothes I wore last night are in the wash. They stink of
cigarette smoke and deceipt.
            ------------------------

What I didn't say, was that if they continued to be so intractable
regarding Marauder, at the deadline I would simply withdraw from 
the whole thing. It was the only way I could see to remove myself
from the dilema they had forced me into. So the joke's on them -
if they'd simply shut up and sat tight, they'd have got their way.
I'd have gone and done a small expo with friends of my own later,
if possible, just as Onetel was planning to do.


Ask for a flamewar, get two. Mostly just with one person (Willow)
but FeNix joining once. By Wednesday evening, it was on for one
and all. Which in fact was Willow vs Diode.
Onetel and Curly took no part in this at all, perhaps wisely.
Although the 'to all' mails began bouncing off Onetel's full
hotmail mailbox. See transcripts.

The upshot of it was, that both FeNix and Willow took sufficient
personal offence, to declare they were dropping out entirely.
And never at any point appeared to consider that they might simply
accept that Marauder wasn't the latent axe murderer they'd painted
him as, and they would be able to agree as a group to his presence.
It was more along the lines - well, I'm out of it, you are obviously
going to do whtever you want, go ahead, see if I care!

One practical difficulty incurred by FeNix and Willow quitting in
a huff, is that they have the only copies of the site map. Which is
quite critical to any serious expo.

The email flaming went on all of Wednesday night, till dawn. If I
had to guess, I'd say that Willow was again going through a few
bottles of beer, and her email debating style was quite a rare
experience, though not very edifying.

In general, I had enough of flamewar excitement many years ago.
A skill honed in many a pointless and violent usenet argument.
These days, full bore hosing has lost its appeal, and I prefer to
restrict myself to calmer modes of writing.
But this was a matter of principle!
These people were libelling a friend, trying to make me betray him,
and then lie about it. Then they attack me for standing up to it.
Then get all upset about being called on it. Then storm out and
slam the door (figuratively) in a huff.

Yeah, I wasn't trying to be nice. In fact, being quite pissed off,
I was _trying_ to hurt. And as I said, I was once an ace flamer.
Careful who you pick keyboard fights with, you guys.


So, I now have a very excellent location, demanding an urgent expo.
Three members of 'The Six' have pulled out of the planning in spite.
Thats Willow, FeNix (and Sputnik, I presume.) Onetel had been saying
he was thinking he'd prefer to go later in a smaller group (hey, that
was one of the accusations against Marauder! But no matter..)
Curly and Onetel are being very diplomatic and quiet. Good for them.

And I'm very, very sick of all this cliquey 'secret lists' stuff.
It never works. Yes, there are some people in the Clan that I'd
worry a lot about if they went on this expo. And in there the group
can not afford fuck-ups and stealth failures. Plus, its still simply
not possible (or wise anyway) to run it like a normal, details fully
announced expo. So, its necessary to run the expo in a staged-info-
release format, where people only find out certain facts as they
get closer to the destination.

Doing this as an open-invitation expo does mean that we completely
lose any secrecy as soon as the expo is over, and everyone goes home
and talks to friends about it. But I think we were kidding ourselves
about the 'core Clan' being all that much better in this respect anyway.

Consequently, with the Secret Six effectively no longer existing, I
decided to post the expo up on expobase. With a bit of a comic sketch
as an intro, hence the 'Viva Le Revolution!' News Flash posting.
Incidentally, Siolo at no time had any part in this - I just used
his name as interviewer in the 'news article.'


Normally, private emails should never be passed on to others.
However, the group mailings of the Secret Six are, as far as I'm
concerned, part of the Cave Clan history. Not to mention being
relevent to rumours going round that 'Diode sabotaged the expo'.
Well, I suppose I did. Unless you count others' betrayal of the
principles of the 'No Baggage Expo' in a hypocritical and unfair
manner, and pressuring me to do things I'm simply not prepared
to do, or to put up with, as prior cause.
Plus their refusal to negotiate at all, on a point like one name
that the finder of the location would like to add to the invite
list. Two names really. Any names they came up with, were OK.
Any names I proposed, that they didn't like, uh uh!
I'd also like to mention that I didn't oppose a single name that
they had added, despite having 'reservations' about some, and
agreeing with their rejections of others.

And the irony here, is that I expect _I'm_ the one being painted
as a 'poor negotiator'. Phooey.


So, since the proof is in the pudding, I'm posting the entire
email list from the group up on Yahoo. As a zip file, with emails
as sequentially named text files. For afficionados of flaming,
Willow's posts are a must-read - as examples of how not to debate.

With very minor censoring- I will remove one particular allegation
I made about FeNix. Which would serve no purpose to be spread further
than the small group who already read it.
And for which I sincerely apologise to FeNix, for mentioning in
the first place. I did in fact qualify the initial point with an
apology for mentioning it, if the doubt was unjustified.
I'll also attempt to remove identifying references to the location.


Time will tell what will come of it all.

Diode






------------------------ Yahoo! Groups Sponsor ---------------------~-->
Buy Ink Cartridges or Refill Kits for your HP, Epson, Canon or Lexmark
Printer at MyInks.com. Free s/h on orders $50 or more to the US & Canada.
http://www.c1tracking.com/l.asp?cid=5511
http://us.click.yahoo.com/mOAaAA/3exGAA/qnsNAA/ktVolB/TM
---------------------------------------------------------------------~->

 
Yahoo! Groups Links

<*> To visit your group on the web, go to:
     http://groups.yahoo.com/group/cave_clan/

<*> To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
     cave_clan-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com

<*> Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to:
     http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/
 

