                                          Immaterial Incorporated-Cabinet
   
   Complete transcript of interview with Eben Moglen: The Encryption
   Wars, Part I
   
   JAY WORTHINGTON: There's a tone of exhortation that seems to run
   through your writing on encryption- do you see a civic obligation to
   encrypt on the part of people making use of the internet, e-mail,
   digital communications generally?
   
   EBEN MOGLEN: I guess. This was particularly true during the state of
   affairs in the fall of 1998, when I gave a talk at NYU called "So Much
   For Savages." There was then a feeling that the United States
   government might actually continue export controls, and that it was in
   that sense people's civic responsibility to take advantage of the fact
   that the controls no longer rested on any technical basis at all and
   that the attempt of the American secret world and other secret police
   around the world to slow down the end-to-end encryption of the net was
   no longer a process over which they had actual control. The hypothesis
   of "So Much For Savages" was essentially that the determination of
   whether to make an end-to-end encrypted internet now belonged to the
   members of the internet community. If they used the publicly available
   tools, like SSH, they would in effect up the total level of encrypted
   traffic in the net to the point at which by mere volume alone, without
   regard to the quality of the algorithms being used, a lot of the
   traditional listeners would have lost their ability to listen.
   
   WORTHINGTON: What density of encrypted traffic is necessary before
   mail in an envelope doesn't stand out from the postcards? At what
   point does encrypted traffic stop standing out against the background
   noise?

   MOGLEN: It depends on whom you're thinking of counteracting. As the
   Europeans have been aware, which was what this year's Echelon
   controversy has been about, the U.S. has been essentially the empire
   in charge of who got what in the global telecommunications structure.
   The carefully farmed out approach to that which Echelon represented
   for voice traffic, in which everybody had the right to declare some
   keywords, but only the U.S. had control over the keyword dictionary
   and there were a lot of intelligence services around the world
   providing local collection for U.S. keywords that they couldn't
   actually see. That structure no longer seems likely to survive. The
   Americans will continue to try and take everything, but they will be
   on a more realistic basis with their foreign listener
   competitor-cooperators. The Echelon mess will eventually develop into
   some European recognition that they're not going to give all the voice
   traffic on the continent away to the Americans. This in mind, if the
   net were 30% encrypted, it would be more than sufficient to overwhelm
   the collection and analysis capacities of everybody except the
   Americans.
   
   WORTHINGTON: That's the sort of density where you would have to go
   fairly far down into the spectrum of casual users.
   
   MOGLEN: Well, it depends. The people who are interested in
   transactional security now have SSL in the browsers of consumers, and
   they count upon it's being there. It's weak encryption, and they use
   it a lot less than they could, but just upping the total amount of
   encrypted data, all by itself, makes things more confusing. With
   respect to anything, you've got to decrypt to figure out what it is,
   and therefore this pure keyword approach to wading your way through
   the world's interactions becomes unusable. You've actually got to do
   traffic analysis in a way which allows you to decide what to decrypt,
   in order to find out if the keywords are there, instead of purely
   seining all the information flow in the world looking for words which
   is effectively how the system has operated up until now.
   
   WORTHINGTON: It does seem the only way today that Louis Freeh could
   have plausibly suggested simultaneous monitoring one percent of all
   the telecommunications traffic in the United States.
   
   MOGLEN: That's right. But it is absolutely true, as you suggested,
   that unless the dominant operating used by almost everybody affords
   them real session security through an SSH-like client that simply
   routinely encrypts what comes in and what goes out as they are typing
   keys to remote computers we're not going to have gotten to where we
   need to go. "So Much For Savages" then was an advertisement, and a
   thought experiment, and a fundamental point about how things then
   stood, in the period after there was a defacto recognition that strong
   encryption was everywhere but while the United States government was
   still controlling, through export controls, some nominal extent of
   cryptography in this society.
   
   WORTHINGTON: The export controls were lifted in the fall of '99?
   
   MOGLEN: That's right.
   
   WORTHINGTON: Do you think that's a battle the government has given up
   on?
   
   MOGLEN: Well, I don't think their answer is there's nothing we're
   going to be able to do about it. But the answer is we are no longer
   attempting to delay the adoption of strong encryption technology by
   United States export controls. You'll notice that last night they took
   the error out the GPS.
   
   WORTHINGTON: So Iraq is now going to be able to target its cruise
   missiles precisely on top of the Washington Monument and not 50 meters
   away.
   
   MOGLEN: Yes. The military says they will continue to provide wrong
   information in just those places that are absolutely important, but I
   don't think that means the White House or the Washington Monument. I
   think that means missile silos in Montana.
   
   WORTHINGTON: Do you think, ten years from now, we'll see maps
   published showing the version of the United States that's being
   released now, with these abrupt transitions from crystal clarity to
   fog?
   
   MOGLEN: Mapmaking is a very interesting subject in general, because
   when everybody in the country is carrying GPS equipment, one kind of
   mapmaking that will be absolutely possible consists of the whole
   structure of what we think of as free data. That is to say - people
   voluntarily walking around with GPS equipped cell phones donating the
   stream of their information to a mapping database which will be a very
   accurate map of everywhere all the time. Every bridge, every road,
   every place in the country will be repeatedly measured by people
   moving around with GPS equipment.
   
   WORTHINGTON: Have you heard of any project like this today?
   
   MOGLEN: I'm not aware of any. But you can see that it will happen,
   because that data stream will exist, and there will be a kind of
   decentralized geographic information service structure, but I don't
   think anybody has yet thought about what will happen. You have lots of
   people thinking about it from a commercial point of view - Pizza Hut
   guys wondering how soon they'll be able to advertise to you on your
   cell phone where the closest Pizza Hut is.
   
   WORTHINGTON: It sounds like you were going in more of an open-source
   direction, though.
   
   MOGLEN: That's right, and indeed, lots of open-data possibilities of
   all sorts exist out there that we will begin to see. But like a lot of
   free-software activity, this organizes as people perceive the need or
   the possibility. It doesn't organize ahead of that perception. We get,
   in our world, accustomed to the idea that what people think is neat,
   or needed, they'll do. As the net makes possible various kinds of
   collaborations that have never been possible before they'll do things,
   collaboratively, in new ways. Part of what I'm trying to do is
   understand what the political economy of a world full of that kind of
   content sharing is, and this is just one tiny little example of such a
   process.
   
   But let's return to encryption. Yes, it's correct, the United States
   government effectively resigned from certain kinds of control
   activities over the course of the past year. That represents the end
   of Phase I of the crypto wars as I knew them Phase I of the crypto
   wars was a public law controversy about government control over
   cryptography. Phase II of the crypto wars begins now. It began with
   the DVD case at the end of last December. It constitutes a private law
   controversy over cryptanalysis in which what people are attempting now
   to control is other people's ability to understand encryption, where
   previously, in round one, a public law controversy was fought over
   constitutional and other public law rights to encrypt things. So we
   have now moved quite sharply from one stage to another stage over the
   controversy about encryption in society. The leading forces against
   encryption and cryptography were policemen and spooks, and over the
   course of the past ten years, from the moment that PGP was distributed
   on the net until the government's change in regulations late last
   year, we were effectively in an environment in which the question was
   were people going to be allowed to keep secrets or were cops and
   spooks going to be able to control the development of the technology.
   
   That question has now been answered. If the NSA can develop quantum
   computers, if this, if that, if somebody figures out a way to factor
   large numbers... something might destabilize this new environment in a
   deep way, but as things now stand, cryptography wins over
   cryptanalysis in civil society for one set of applications, which is
   the maintenance of privacy in personal communications, and that will
   have a series of social consequences, some of them which we
   individually don't love, or do, but it will have a series of definite
   effects.
   
   WORTHINGTON: What's your quick list of these consequences, good and
   bad? You seem to see a possible divide between the international and
   the domestic consequences of encryption.
   
   MOGLEN: Well, at least I've wanted to point out to people that when
   you do this social accounting, you can't treat it as though all of us
   live in Lake Forest, Illinois. Some of us live in Baghdad, or Beijing,
   or various other places, and in those other places the balance of
   power between civil society and government is quite different from
   what it is in the United States and the social accounting is
   different. So, yes, the Iraqi gulag, or the Russian gulag, will be
   more difficult to erect in the 21st century. You can still have an
   empire of fear, but you have to base that empire of fear more on
   networks of personal surveillance and informers than on the
   interception of communication.
   
   WORTHINGTON: And domestically?
   
   MOGLEN: Well, the right of anonymity, which people are beginning to
   see they might have some stake in, and what we now call privacy, by
   which this time we mean control over personal information, both depend
   upon encryption based solutions. If we are going to have the ability
   to read what we want without being surveilled in reading it, that's
   because we are using agents to do our reading, which are
   unidentifiable and which restore content to us in an encrypted stream.
   That's how we get around people who establish surveillance blockages
   or interception points to find out what we're reading and whether
   we're paying for it, doing something seditious because of it, or just
   looking at naked people, or whatever. Our ability to behave
   anonymously on the net, and our ability to control the flow of
   information about ourselves both depend on our ability to encrypt what
   we do.
   
   WORTHINGTON: At the same time, encryption is at the heart of the
   current mechanisms for extracting revenue from copyrighted streams of
   information on the net.
   
   MOGLEN: That's precisely why we now find ourselves in disputes over
   whether cryptanalysis can be controlled by intellectual property law
   as cryptography was controlled by arms-export law. What we face in the
   DVD case and in lots of other conceptual or actual situations -
   CyberPatrol, for example - is a claim that interfering with the
   secrecy of other people's content, which in itself creates the
   possibility of copyright infringement, is somehow sufficient basis on
   which to abate the cryptanalysis technology altogether. It is not
   proven in the DVD controversies - nor will it be proven, since it is
   not happening - that somebody is actually pirating movies off DVDs
   using DECSS. That's not what happens. Recovering 5.7 gigabytes of raw
   video and audio data on a hard drive is not a first step towards
   commercial piracy of DVDs. The way commercial piracy of DVDs goes is
   bit-by-bit copying in a mass presser plant, and that's why movies are
   cheap in Thailand. It's got nothing to do with all this DECSS stuff.
   
   What we have is an environment in which rather than thinking about
   government control over whether we can encrypt, we are now thinking
   about private power control over whether we can decrypt without
   permission, and that's a different war, with a very different legal
   feeling to it. It has a very different public feeling. The eight
   largest movie studios in the United States can, paradoxically, spend a
   whole lot more money litigating these questions than the United States
   government could ever spend litigating the export control regulations.
   It's a paradox of the way the U.S. government works that the secret
   agencies spent hundreds of millions of dollars building Echelon and
   all the rest of the interception gear, but when it came down to
   defending the export controls over encryption in the federal courts
   you had a couple of assistant U.S. attorneys. You had lots of FBI
   agents and lots of NSA guys hiding in the shadows, but no lawyers.
   They couldn't do scorched earth, bury the other guy, spend him into
   surrender litigation against Bernstein when he challenged the export
   controls, but when it comes to a Norwegian fifteen year old and the
   eight largest movie studios in the world, you can imagine that the
   shape of the legal confrontation is much more difficult.
   
   WORTHINGTON: And do you think the lines here are as clearly drawn?
   
   MOGLEN: No. What we have here are two different structures of the
   distribution of cultural product. You have a set of people whose
   fundamental belief is that cultural products are best distributed when
   they are owned, and they are attempting to construct a leak proof pipe
   from production studio to eardrum or eyeball of the consumer. Their
   goal is to construct a piping system that allows them to distribute
   completely dephysicalized cultural entities which have zero marginal
   cost and which in a competitive economy would therefore be priced at
   zero, but they wish to distribute them at non-zero prices. In the
   ideal world, they would distribute them at the same prices they get
   for physical objects which cost a lot of money to make, move and sell,
   and they would become ferociously profitable. They are prepared to
   give on price, but at every turn, as with the VCR at the beginning of
   the last epoch, their principle is any ability of this content to
   escape their control will bring about the end of civilization.
   
   This is an absurd claim. Nobody believes it but studio executives. My
   students are beginning to believe, to my shock, a communist thing -
   namely, it's our music, and how dare they take it away from us - which
   is an enormously important and suggestive development. But, the theory
   of commercial distribution of proprietary culture is not a theory that
   one can say people have a duty to resist. I'm not at the Abby Hoffman
   "Steal this Book" level.
   
   But there is, of course, an alternative economy trying to grow up.
   With respect to software, it's happened already. With respect to
   software, it's already been demonstrated that in the real world in
   which we live, zero-marginal cost products that are collaboratively
   developed in the net and that have measurable functional
   characteristics - so that one can say, in an objective way, this is
   better or worse - are better produced anarchistically than they are in
   a proprietary mode. This is what the development of GNU, Linux, and
   all the rest are about. You can have more people doing more work,
   contributing more rapidly, fixing more bugs at the point of discovery,
   and you have Lamarckian evolution of software so that all favorable
   characteristics are inherited and therefore you get very rapid
   development. That's why the development curve on free software
   products has been so staggering to commercial producers who didn't
   know how these things could have roared up out of nowhere.
   
   This is the hypothesis of "Anarchism Triumphant" and part of what I'm
   writing about in "The Invisible Barbecue." We're going to have a
   competition in certain sectors of the economy between property and
   non-property production and non-property production is going to win.
   But the same can't be said when the goods are not functional and there
   is not an objective evaluation of betterness or worseness, and where
   the level of collaboration in production is less. We will see art
   forms in the next generation that are just as collaborative in
   production as software or free-data goods are, where thousands of
   people have collaborated on something, but many, almost all, of the
   traditional art forms are produced by a comparatively small number of
   people in direct contact with one another. In such a world, I
   maintain, there's no inherent reason why non-property production
   drives out property production. In this world, however, non-property
   distribution drives out property distribution, and the reason is
   simply that non-property distribution propagates at the speed of
   personal recommendation.
   
   WORTHINGTON: Assuming decryption.
   
   MOGLEN: Absolutely. Non-property distribution assumes music you can
   copy as many times as you please and give to whoever you want,
   changing it however you like.
   
   WORTHINGTON: And how are producers compensated? Through the kinds of
   informal systems and prestige that commentators have observed in the
   free software movement?
   
   MOGLEN: They may very well be, and we have to ask how the producer
   gets paid, but at the moment we can understand that the distributor
   who wants to do the same thing in a property way will fail. The market
   will saturate with non-property distribution. This is what the music
   industry is afraid of, with respect to Napster and Gnutella and so on.
   
   WORTHINGTON: Unless people are willing to pay for certain proprietary
   content that can be defended.
   
   MOGLEN: Absolutely. The point is only that the distribution structures
   have an advantage when it is free. But because the free production
   structure has no advantage, there's nothing to prevent Warner Brothers
   from making better music than a garage band that gives it away for
   free. Lots of people could prefer one, or lots of people could prefer
   the other. So, if there were no attempt to make what I would call
   monopolistic decisions, there's no end in sight to the coexistence of
   the free cultural properties market and the non-free, proprietary
   cultural properties market. They would exist independently of each
   other for the foreseeable future. What is happening now in the
   lawsuits against MP3 and Napster, the content industries are saying
   that you're not allowed to have a non-property distribution structure.
   The reason you're not allowed to do this, they're saying, is that even
   if you have non-property goods to distribute in it, the mere fact that
   you could also be distributing proprietary goods through such a
   structure means that the whole structure is contributory copyright
   infringement and should be suppressed.
   
   WORTHINGTON: What do you think will be the long-term outcome of that
   particular struggle?
   
   MOGLEN: You'd have to put every teenager in the world in jail, and you
   can't do it. I published an op-ed piece in the Harvard Crimson last
   week addressed to that audience, and I said "Isn't it interesting that
   here are these companies that do business all over the world selling
   to young people, and now they're suing, jailing and harassing them."
   How can you keep on like this? You can't alienate your customers. What
   is the Mattel toy company going to do when children don't like it?
   
   WORTHINGTON: Will customers actually make buying decisions with their
   social and political interests at heart?
   
   MOGLEN: At the moment, all over university campuses, two things are
   going on: students are demanding that the sweatshirts sold in the
   bookstore not be made in sweatshops, and they're using Napster. I
   think the answer to your question is pretty clear - yes, they will put
   their behavior behind their attitudes. How far?We don't know. Could it
   really develop into a kulturkampf between Disney on the one hand and
   its consumers on the other? No, because Disney is not an idiot. It
   cannot actually forfeit the goodwill of its consumers.
   
   WORTHINGTON: What if Disney targets, not its customers, but the
   programmers who make Napster possible?
   
   MOGLEN: But, in the end, of course, that turns out to be the
   customers. The problem here is that the people who have made free
   distribution systems have not used free software to do it, and this is
   the difference between Napster and Gnutella. Once the free
   distribution structure is free throughout; the software is free; there
   is no centralized server anymore; there's no point of contact between
   Disney and the distribution system it is attempting to suppress,
   except the consumers who constitute the distribution system, so that
   after a while you'd have to attack the consumers, because the
   consumers are also the distributors. We've disintermediated the
   distributors out of the story. Now that happens with respect to
   zero-marginal cost goods throughout the economy. In the world where
   music has been subjected to a free distribution structure, there are
   only musicians, listeners, and people who try to get in between
   musicians and listeners who we used to refer to as facilitators,
   publishers.
   
   WORTHINGTON: And people who write the free software that makes this
   distributed network of relationships possible.
   
   MOGLEN: Absolutely. All of this depends upon that.
   
   WORTHINGTON: Are there ways for the proprietary distribution camp to
   make that now formless element something tangible, something that they
   can approach or attack?
   
   MOGLEN: What we are going to see is a strong part on the part of the
   content industry to attack free software centrally. In the pipelines
   they're trying to build, the switch between their pipe and your eyes
   and ears, your computer is the weakest link in the chain. You control
   the operating system kernel of that computer, and if you control that
   operating system, then you can say, "Hey. On the way to the sound
   card, drop this where I want it put." You have decrypted the content.
   You're at the last stage before the noise emerges into air molecules.
   
   WORTHINGTON: So the real civic obligation is to download Linux?
   
   MOGLEN: The real civic obligation is to use free software. That's
   correct.
   
   WORTHINGTON: How do you proselytize that?
   
   MOGLEN: If you're a capitalist and you have the best goods and they're
   free, you don't have to proselytize, you just have to wait.
   
   WORTHINGTON: How long would you say Linux has been the best good? Five
   years? It seems like there's a whole world of consumers out there who
   don't feel themselves capable of judging whether Linux is a better
   good at all.
   
   MOGLEN: There are two possible ways of thinking about this question.
   One is, how long does it take the current user base to get to free
   software, and the other is how long does it take the current user base
   to be replaced by another user base. It's a transitional issue. In
   1979, when I was working at IBM, I wrote an internal memo lambasting
   the Apple Lisa, which was Apple's first attempt to adapt Xerox PARC
   technology, the graphical user interface, into a desktop PC. I was
   then working on the development of APL2, a nested array, algorithmic,
   symbolic language, and I was committed to the idea that what we were
   doing with computers was making languages that were better than
   natural languages for procedural thought. The idea was to do for whole
   ranges of human thinking what mathematics has been doing for thousands
   of years in the quantitative arrangement of knowledge, and to help
   people think in more precise and clear ways. What I saw in the Xerox
   PARC technology was the caveman interface, you point and you grunt. A
   massive winding down, regressing away from language, in order to
   address the technological nervousness of the user. Users wanted to be
   infantilized, to return to a pre-linguistic condition in the using of
   computers, and the Xerox PARC technology's primary advantage was that
   it allowed users to address computers in a pre-linguistic way. This
   was to my mind a terribly socially retrograde thing to do, and I have
   not changed my mind about that. I lost that war in the early 1980s,
   went to law school, got a history PHD, did other things, because the
   fundamental turn in the technology - which we see represented in its
   most technologically degenerate form, which is Windows, the really
   crippled version. I mean, I use Xwindows every day on my free-software
   PCs; I have nothing against a windowing environment, but it's a
   windowing environment which is network transparent and which is based
   around the fact that inside every window there's some dialogue to have
   with some linguistic entity.
   
   WORTHINGTON: There's a command prompt in every window.
   
   MOGLEN: Exactly. And, of course, network transparency, a central idea
   of how to organize computers in the world so that what's behind your
   window might be a process on another computer is largely gone. The
   whole thing represents a very downmarket view of the way people and
   machines ought to interact.
   
   WORTHINGTON: Don't you think, in today's world, that it's increasingly
   difficult to resist Windows?
   
   MOGLEN: Well, maybe. But the two and three year olds, who've grown up
   with computers since the day they were born, and for whom the limited
   semantics and even more limited syntax of mouse-frame interaction are
   just second nature - my two and a half year old nephew, who has all of
   the difficulties of hand-eye coordination and language acquisition
   that any two and half year old has, he's absolutely comfortable moving
   a mouse around and looking at a pointer on the screen, and he can do
   30 or 40 interactions on the screen per minute. All of that is natural
   to him, and he's two and a half. When he's fifteen, is he going to
   want to use an operating system he can't change? The idea that he
   can't get under the covers after a whole decade and half of life with
   computers, he's just got to accept that they're as formlessly,
   seamlessly, totally incorporated, with nothing for him to do as his
   father's Oldsmobile? That's just not the way society is going to
   exist. The number of people who are going to demand to control their
   environment is going to be very large.
   
   WORTHINGTON: You mean demanding to have access to their source code,
   tinker with it, and share it with others? Is that how you're defining
   controlling their environment?
   
   MOGLEN: Absolutely. In the same way, kids, boy kids particularly of
   course, they wanted the engines of automobiles to be malleable.
   
   WORTHINGTON: What fraction of Americans actually knew how to tinker
   with the insides of their cars?
   
   MOGLEN: The answer would be an interesting one. I don't know, but it's
   an important question in the historical sociology of the American
   relationship to the automobile. At that moment after the second world
   war, when a high school to factory attitude prevailed about where the
   good working class life was, what proportion of those kids - mainly
   boy kids - grew up messing with automobiles?
   
   WORTHINGTON: That's the question you'd ask in a different form today.
   
   MOGLEN: Yes, you would. And you would say, it's not going to quite as
   much a boy thing, but it's already too much of a boy thing, and the
   level of sexual dimorphism in this is interesting to observe and to
   think about and do something about. But, look at the life histories of
   a bunch of the people you come across when you occupy this beat -
   people like Stallman and Gillmore. Stallman and I met when he was
   nineteen and I was sixteen and we sat at adjacent desks in Westchester
   county working for the same timesharing company, and with two other
   guys we were writing what I believe was the first networked e-mail
   system in the world. What I see when I look at guys in our generation,
   we are now in our 40's, we were kids who grew up in an environment
   where we were programmers - not of video games, but of really heavy
   stuff - we were youngsters who were allowed to work in ways that
   youngsters are not now allowed to work because the whole industry is
   professionalized to the point where you can't get in without some of
   the same kinds of credentialing that you get into any other business
   with.
   
   We grew up in a free-software world. We shared everything. We worked
   in an environment where the source code to our mainframe operating
   system was given away. It wasn't that IBM didn't claim to own it, but
   they shared it with their customers so that everybody could improve it
   together. The people who grew up in the culture of the programmers of
   the early 1970s, the late 1960s, you see them now at the edges, or
   even at the center, of the free software movement. You see them now
   trying to bring about some sense of what it is like to grow up knowing
   how to program and wanting to be able to make changes and do neat
   stuff. I think what we're doing is showing why people will give away
   what they do, why they will do what's neat, why they will engage in
   making stuff just because they know how to do something terrific. To
   respond to your question, I say that the generation of kids growing up
   now with computers as standard equipment in their world, they're not
   going to lose that feeling, they're going to have that feeling much
   more than we did. Now the question is, what are they going to be able
   to do with it?
   
   WORTHINGTON: Will we have that world even if children are using
   Windows software from birth? I'm inclined to think that a three year
   old growing up with Linux, in your story, is much more likely to grow
   up into your idealized fifteen year old.
   
   MOGLEN: Well, if you look at the computer science 101 syllabi of
   universities in India, Southeast Asia, Indonesia, if you go on the web
   and look at these, the CS 101 curriculum in these universities assumes
   that people are using a Linux based computer rather than a Windows
   based computer. I mean, it's free. So, Singapore and Thailand and
   Malaysia are going to produce a lot of young adults who learned about
   computers using free software; the computers in their homes are going
   to be free-software computers; their children are going to grow up
   with free software computers. Which bunch of people are going to be
   the talented, engaging, aggressive programmers, busy making changes?
   
   WORTHINGTON: So, culturally, you see the collective decision to use
   Windows as one which forecloses the possibilities of generations down
   the road?
   
   MOGLEN: Well, it's a decision to have fewer programmers. The whole
   point of free is freedom to change, not low cost, and the whole point
   of the world towards which we are moving is that the primary power
   distinction, the class line, is between those people who know how to
   change the behavior of computers and those people who don't. Because
   that kind of knowledge, in particular, the ability to interact with
   complex technological systems to alter their behavior, is power over
   ordinary daily life in a profound way.
   
   WORTHINGTON: So what civic obligations does that leave us with today?
   
   MOGLEN: Well, I don't want to be dogmatic about what other people's
   responsibilities are.
   
   WORTHINGTON: Go ahead.
   
   MOGLEN: If you want to gain knowledge, you need to know these things.
   If you want to convey knowledge, if you want to help other people
   learn, you have to help them to know these things. If you want to be
   living in contact with the real issues, you're going to have to know
   enough about the technology to see where the real issues are. If we
   wrote down on a list the eight or the ten most important political
   issues in this society at the moment, my guess is that three or four
   of them would be issues that you can't understand, let alone have a
   good opinion about, unless you know a good deal about technology. If
   we wrote down the issues that we feel most nervous about, of those ten
   we'd probably find that three or four are places where we think that
   people are getting rushed out of the question already, because the
   guys who know are racing to lock it up before everybody else figures
   out what's going on.
   
   Now, in an environment where both of those things that I have just
   said are true, civic duty is to learn what you need to learn in order
   to make the decisions in a democratic society in a grown-up way.
   That's the same civic duty that Thomas Jefferson or George Washington
   believed in. The people who think that we need to have a democratic
   society are always people who are worried about whether the voters who
   control the society know enough, and it's not a question of taking
   power away from them, it's a question of helping them to become
   knowledgeable and engaged. We've got a duty to try and explain this
   stuff clearly. We've got a duty to learn these technologies so that we
   can ourselves participate, and most importantly we have a duty to look
   at the educational system to find out whether it teaches people who
   grow up in the society what they need to know.
   
   You look again and again at how we educate people about technology in
   this society and again and again you see people who've given money to
   have their technology taught and to have other's people technology not
   taught. Cisco Systems is a very interesting business, which is now
   regarded somehow as the antithesis of Microsoft. If Microsoft is bad
   and weak and vulnerable which it now, suddenly is thought to be, Cisco
   somehow is unquestionable. Well, what do they make? They make the
   infrastructure of the internet. What is that? We don't know, but we
   buy their stock. Cisco is in fact a most extraordinary example of the
   paper tiger, a hollow animal. The Cisco world consists of selling at
   exorbitantly high prices routers which use proprietary software. So,
   in order to know how to program a router you have to know Cisco-talk.
   They spend vast amounts of money in junior colleges on vocational
   educational systems to teach people Cisco-talk, and those kids
   graduate with Cisco certification, they go to work in the businesses
   that need network infrastructure, and they install Cisco hardware.
   There's a bilateral monopoly between technically, vocationally trained
   people, who have learned a proprietary way of doing things, and a
   manufacturer which sells goods at very high markups, because it has a
   proprietary, secret language.
   
   Now, the router is in fact not a complicated entity. Many years ago we
   created, spontaneously, a thing called Linux-router.org, which is
   simply a way of providing a Linux kernel optimized for routing in a
   very flexible little package that fits on a 1.44 floppy disk, and
   routers are in fact throwaway boxes - a strong router is a 100 Mghz
   486.
   
   WORTHINGTON: That was a throwaway box five years ago.
   
   MOGLEN: Yes, but I use one as my server. All the web stuff of mine
   that you read, all my e-mail, all my electronic courses, the one box
   that does all that work for me is a 100 Mghz box with 32 Mg of main
   memory in it, and I keep it that way deliberately, in order to make a
   point.
   
   WORTHINGTON: I have a 133 Mghz motherboard sitting in a box under my
   bed.
   
   MOGLEN: It would make a fine server. One of the fundamentally untold
   parts of this story is what the WinTel hard strategic alliance gave
   Andrew Grove, who has come out of this beautifully. Intel isn't being
   broken up by the United States Government. But what the WinTel box did
   was create a bad, slow, bloated software division for a hardware
   manufacturer that needed to keep the market from saturating.
   
   WORTHINGTON: And the way to do that is to continually escalate the
   demands created by bad software.
   
   MOGLEN: Absolutely.
   
   WORTHINGTON: And yet in the long run you feel that Windows has already
   lost the war.
   
   MOGLEN: There's no question. But the world economy would not
   necessarily be better off if nobody needed to buy any PCs any more.
   The fact that the hardware market actually saturated with all the
   computers we really needed years ago is not really an argument for why
   the society would be so much more prosperous if we stopped making
   them.
   
   Rather, this is the digital divide problem in a serious way. I made a
   proposal to the Israeli government a year ago that went like this:
   Take every computer that you threw away in the state last year, just
   the ones you scrapped, and put free software on them. They are now the
   routers, bridges, switches and e-mail servers for an entire free
   broadband network for all of Israel. The only thing you don't have is
   the cable. But you have required annual military reserve duty. Take
   one cycle and say everybody not performing militarily essential
   service is laying fiber, for one year. You are now finished. Free
   software, scrapped computers, one year of conscript labor, and the
   physical cost of the fiber and you're done. You have a broadband
   network in a little, demographically concentrated country with a
   highly educated population, and when I talk about building a network I
   mean on the West Bank and Gaza too, and then you say this is a gift.
   We're leaving this here. This is a little bit of what we need to do -
   two states, one network. And you know what, nobody will ever bomb that
   network, tear it up or throw it away, because that's how, if you're in
   Gaza or the West Bank, you get out to the world. That's how you free
   the people you have been chaining up all these years.
   
   Now, after I finished making that pitch, I was leaving the room, and
   the chief of one of the computing centers in one of the big
   universities turned to one of his opposite numbers and said to him in
   Hebrew, 'Oh, these Americans, they're so idealistic. It's impossible.'
   And I said, you see, the Zionists are no longer the idealists. It's
   the Americans. Now, they'll get there eventually, but as of now,
   they're not ready yet. The belief that it could actually happen isn't
   there. They haven't taken a hard look. They don't realize it is in
   fact technically possible.
   
   But the truth is, that what the digital divide means, what inequality
   of access means now, primarily, is a series of decisions about the
   allocation of hardware and software coming home to roost. We have all
   the computers we need. We have more computers than we need. Giving
   every kid in the country a computer? That's nothing. We're scrapping
   all the stuff. And software? We can provide free software to
   everybody. That's no problem. We're built for that.
   
   What we don't have is telecommunications infrastructure that is free.
   What we don't have is the time, the online hours. This is why we need
   to use the spectrum to create a free net. An uncharged, birthright
   bandwidth system. A chapter of my book which proposes just that is not
   yet on the web but it'll get there one of these months. My proposal is
   for a simple, birthright bandwidth structure, using just the current
   analog television frequencies that under the '96 Telecommunications
   Act the broadcasters have already promised to give up. It's good
   spectrum. It goes through walls very nicely. It does all the things we
   need. It needs to be used as though by cell phones, with little boxes
   that arbitrage frequency usage directly and intelligently on a
   cellular broadcasting kind of model. We could give everybody who is
   here 400 megabits of bi-directional bandwidth. I'm sure. Maybe we
   could go to 600. You're not a television broadcaster, but you're a
   radio station, and if you and your friends get together, two or three
   of you, you can be a television station. My proposal is that bandwidth
   is personal to you. It's in a box like your cell phone. You take it to
   work in the morning, and you contribute that bandwidth to your
   employer. You take it to church, to your clubs, your bowling league,
   wherever you go. The idea is that civil society is constituted around
   the notion of an equality of access to communications. Everything else
   falls out. Old hardware, free software, wireless infrastructure that
   belongs to the nation as a whole, which is already required to come
   back to us.
   
   WORTHINGTON: Would this bandwidth be inalienable? Would people be able
   to buy and sell the bandwidth they're born with?
   
   MOGLEN: Well, my own judgment is that the proposition ought to be that
   it's not tradable, any more than you can sell your right to drive on
   I-80. There's no market in buying from you your right to drive on the
   public highways, and there's no buying from you your right to drink
   the municipal water supply. But obviously, you can understand why
   people might think in those other terms. Now Nick Negroponte
   recommended years ago what has come to be called the Negroponte
   switch, which is to put all the commercial uses for all communications
   down on the cable lines and to recover the wireless domain for the
   personal communications uses which we now heavily use the cable lines
   for. I was listening to a rather right wing securities analyst - as
   though there were any other kind - talking about the telecom business
   six months ago, and he was talking about the long distance companies.
   And somebody said to him, well now they're getting down to a nickel
   any time, is there any more air in that? How could that price go any
   lower? And he said, you must be kidding - there's three and a half
   cents extra in that five cents, and he said, you know, at nights and
   on weekends, the price ought to be zero. And I thought, man, if the
   rightwing securities analysts are beginning to talk about free long
   distance calls, what's left? We should be living in an environment in
   which the recognition is that the building of the public
   infrastructure allows us to render connection as completely and
   obviously a personal right as driving on the street or walking in the
   park or drinking the water or breathing the air.
   
   WORTHINGTON: What do you see as the immediate cultural and political
   roadblocks in the way of that kind of a birthright reconception of
   bandwidth?
   
   MOGLEN: The answer is 'the invisible barbecue,' the way our politics
   is owned. That's the problem. That's why I am writing about a
   three-cornered entity - technology, law, and politics, in this age of
   corruption. That's what we have. We're making land rushes. We're
   trying to turn everything into property. That's the conceptualization.
   The relevance of encryption is that encryption is a device for turning
   bitstreams into property, by creating the power to exclude. When I
   teach property law, what is it that I am teaching people about what
   property is? The Supreme Court, in an image that it likes, refers to a
   stick in a bundle - now that bundle of sticks is the Roman thing
   called fasces, this word out of which we get fascism, it's just a
   funny little thing that has happened to us, the sticks in the bundle,
   like the rods and the axes that meant power in the Roman symbology of
   politics - one of those sticks in the bundle is the right to exclude,
   and often it is that right to exclude which in capitalist society is
   seen as the center of property. I have a right to exclude, and
   therefore I can create a market, and out of the market can come all
   these other great things. In order to have the right to exclude from
   bitstreams you need encryption.
   
   But the whole political structure that we have at the moment, the ease
   of getting patents, the giving away of spectrum in the '96 Act to
   people who already had spectrum to build an HDTV system that we notice
   they're not building, the Federal Communications Commissions
   fundamental strategy of permitting duopolies in whole areas of their
   traditional regulated fields, so long as those duopolies then go out
   and compete in other fields against other duopolies - all these
   structures bear a similar sign, which is that everything is for sale
   because our politics is for sale, and that the law's power to create
   property is now in use in a very heavy way.
   
   Allan Greenspan gives a speech and he says, 'We should beware of
   economic regulation and government interference in the market.
   Government should limit itself to creating and protecting intellectual
   property.' As though that weren't regulation and intervention in the
   market. What we have is massive market intervention by legislators who
   have the power to create property rights through law and who are
   selling it. We can't create a free anything, because it is
   ideologically deprecated for things to be free, and most importantly,
   because it is politically ineffective for things to be free, because
   making things free doesn't bring in campaign contributions.
   
   WORTHINGTON: And yet you seem to feel that at a certain point, the
   functions of these technologies are going to make irrelevant this
   legal apparatus trying to enforce this particular conception of
   property, because free software and free intellectual property will
   simply happen as a result of the increasing ease of communication and
   of creating cooperative, information sharing communities.
   
   MOGLEN: Well, what I say at the end of "Anarchism Triumphant" is that
   this is the big political issue of the time, and aristocracy looks set
   to win. I mean, they're in control. They have all the money; they have
   the politics; they have the shape of things to come in their own view.
   The force is with them. When I say that there are these reasons why
   things ought to be different, I'm talking in the same way that people
   were talking in rathskellers in 1848 - I mean, there ought to be
   democracy; there ought to be liberalism; there ought to be freedom;
   aristocracy ought to go; the ancien regime ought to disappear. Well,
   yes and no. Hence, I end with Chou En-Lai talking to Oriana Fallaci,
   "What's the meaning of the French Revolution?" she says; "Too soon to
   tell" he says. This is a long term question. Are Rupert Murdoch and
   Michael Eisner going to prevail in the short term? Yes. Are they going
   to prevail fifty years from now? I don't know.
   
   In the long run, what's going to happen? In the long run, I do not
   think that the path is in the direction of they will own more and more
   and we will become their helots. I don't think that's what happens.
   Martin Luther King Jr. said, "The moral arc of the universe is long,
   but it bends towards justice." Now in that same broad sense, the moral
   arc of the universe still tends towards democracy, still tends towards
   freedom, still tends towards the growth of societies which enable
   people to be not under the control of others, either the rich or the
   powerful - and in that broad sense, yes, I think certain things can be
   said to have the weight of history behind them.
   
   But what kills ancien regimes is not that they are reactionary. What
   makes the ancien regime fall is that it is modernizing. This is the
   problem of the French in the 1780s; this is the problem of the
   Iranians in the 1970s; this will be the problem of the Chinese in the
   next decade. When you modernize, when you begin the process of change
   and to enable new forms of human growth and expression, there is a
   difficulty with keeping those processes under control. The processes
   now being lit as humanity comes into a new relationship where
   everybody is connected to everybody else without intermediaries, that
   social structure, that condition of massive interconnection that we
   call the internet, that changes everything in profound ways. They are
   modernizing this regime. They think they are going to control it, that
   property relations, legal relations, technology, Lawrence Lessig's
   code doing the work of law kind of idea, that all of this is going to
   make them stable. But it is not going to do that, in my opinion. It is
   going to produce the hunger for the various kinds of freedom and the
   various kinds of liberation that the net makes possible, and if they
   stand between the people and that freedom, they are going to be pushed
   aside. Now, they have money; they have power; they have thought; they
   have influence. It does not have to happen to them.
   
   WORTHINGTON: What if it turns out that people are content with the
   level of freedom that Windows 2010 provides them? What if some minimal
   level of the kind of freedom you're talking about is enough to create
   satisfaction?
   
   MOGLEN: Of course, in the meantime, in that world of 2010, we've moved
   towards being a pay-per-use society for culture. Because in the
   meantime, the book publishing industry hasn't stood still. It's
   selling e-books per read, and the music industry hasn't stood still;
   it's trying to sell you songs per listen. What you have in mind is a
   bargain in which we sort of stay the same as we migrate
   technologically. When you look at how it really functions -
   technologically, politically, economically - we find ourselves moving
   in a world in which we can have many different things, but staying the
   same is really hard. From the point of view of the copyright
   industries, the culture manufacturers, the limited term of copyright
   is unacceptable. What Disney went through to keep the mouse from
   expiring is just the beginning of that issue. Limited term is not
   acceptable. The first sale doctrine is not acceptable. Fair use rights
   are not acceptable. In the world of the electronic, absolutely free,
   frictionless copy, they need to move more and more towards a control
   environment. The traditional balance that lies underneath, that we no
   longer think about, where you just hand the newspaper to the guy
   sitting next to you when you leave the railroad train - that's not
   what they're thinking of, and the logic of the situation compels them
   not to think of it. The logic of the situation compels them to all or
   nothing solutions, and I think they're going to get nothing instead of
   all.
   
   But they are groping. You can see the deal trying to get made, even
   now - How do we work this out so we can sell this music for something,
   without wiping out our high moral ground position that you should pay
   full price and never be allowed to give it to anybody? How do we
   facilitate sharing, which people want to do, without giving away the
   store? I think that there will be intelligence directed at that. I
   don't think all of this is going to be done in a hamfisted and
   thoughtless way. Jack Valenti has to die. You can't go into the
   twenty-first century with Jack Valenti as the only face you have,
   because nineteen year olds are not going to accept that. There's going
   to have to be a different way to do it. They need somebody as good as
   Chuck D, and they don't have that yet. But there will be an attempt,
   there will be lots of attempts to find a way.
   
   WORTHINGTON: Won't some kinds of cultural production simply fall by
   the wayside in a world of free distribution?
   
   MOGLEN: Of course, but look, the same is true with respect to
   pyramids. Without hydraulic despotism and the divine right kingship of
   the pharaoh, we will underproduce pyramids. Now, we've been
   underproducing pyramids for three thousand years, and pyramids are
   beautiful but it isn't hurting us. Without the Renaissance style of
   provisional city-state leadership in Italy that Burckhardt referred to
   as the state as a work of art, you don't get all kinds of villas and
   palaces. There's nothing for Michelangelo to sculpt. You get a little
   bit of stuff for post-modern architects to build, but only if you're
   building a Guggenheim museum. Sure, the structure of art and
   expression is related to the material understructure of society, you
   don't have to be a Marxist to think that.
   
   In a world of really free stuff, I think there would be a lot fewer
   Arnold Schwarzenegger movies. I think $100 million movies don't
   represent a particularly good form of free stuff.
   
   WORTHINGTON: Any sort of high initial capital cost cultural production
   seems hard to justify. Blade Runner probably doesn't get made either.
   
   MOGLEN: Absolutely. On the other hand we're going to have a golden age
   of poetry such as the world has not seen in a thousand years. Even
   traditional art forms may do very well. The literature for two pianos
   is due for an enormous revival. I say, fifteen years from now the
   dominant form of two pianos literature is going to consist of one live
   and one dead pianist. The whole ability for people to engage in
   jamming with Sidney Bechet has only begun to be discussed. What Bill
   Evans did in "Conversations With Myself" is going to become
   conversations with everybody. The only problem is that if I want to
   jam with Sidney Bechet I can't, because somebody owns Sidney Bechet's
   music on record and I've got to deal with them in court. There are
   ranges of collaboration; there are new forms of art; there are new
   ways of making and delivering everything, including dramatic video,
   that will come up, and there are art forms whose names we don't know
   yet that are going to happen. All of that is sure. But you meet people
   who say - But if there weren't property then nobody would make the
   Flintstones - you have to say, well, what do we get on the other side?
   What's the name of all those art forms that we can't have now and that
   we will have then?
   
   The social accounting is done in a funny way. You could, for sure, say
   that the piano was going to kill off a whole bunch of literature for
   the clavichord. Until Keith Jarrett recorded an album of clavichord
   improvisations in the mid 80s, I don't think anybody had played a
   clavichord on record in decades, and the idea of clavichord
   improvisations was deader than Mozart. Of course technological change
   changes the forms of art. There's no question about this. And the
   social environment too. Americans listen to music; they don't make
   music. That's a whole profound change in one generation, really, in
   the history of music in the world. Music was a thing people made; now
   it's a thing we hear. I am a non-maker, listener to music. I have an
   enormous privilege, as I see it, to live at the beginning of the
   digital era, when music from all over the world is available, before
   it has all been homogenized and paved over. I am deeply grateful for
   living at the time that I live, but I am product of a world in which,
   unlike Mendelssohn making his music at home in the evenings with his
   family and his friends, I am a consumer of music. I listen to other
   people's music. There's no question, all of the arts are going to be
   altered by this. Sure. We're not scared of that.
   
   WORTHINGTON: Necessarily homogenized?
   
   MOGLEN: There a zillion different things that could happen. The next
   great Oud virtuoso may be a fifteen year old Vietnamese girl who has
   never seen an Oud and who has never been in the middle east but who is
   listening to one of the great, or seven of the great, Oud virtuosi
   from the Sudan, and from Iraq, and is deciding to play that thing
   herself. Who knows in which directions all of this goes? I can listen
   now to a choral musician from Senegal playing with a Norwegian
   vocalist and a mouth harp player. There's Kirsten Braten-Berg's album,
   called 'From Senegal to Setesdal,' here we have musicians from all
   over the world collaborating in ways that were never really thought
   about before.
   
   It isn't necessarily homogenizing, but of course there are forces for
   homogeneity doing very well at the moment, and it is their activity in
   the net that we are primarily talking about. They are the people who
   want to encrypt. They are the people who want to own. The musicians
   all over the world looking for an audience, they don't show as their
   primary concern that they want to encrypt their music and keep it away
   from people. Ownership and homogenization have a relationship to one
   another. They're not just casually, contextually found in the same
   places. They exist where they exist for reasons. The goal of reaching
   the mass audience and getting paid for each and every eardrum is also
   the goal of homogenizing, to have broad appeal.
   
   WORTHINGTON: It's cheaper if you first standardize the eardrums.
   
   MOGLEN: It's not just cheaper, it's not much of a marketing
   opportunity if you don't standardize. That's what the beauty of being
   separated from production is. Nike doesn't care how an actual shoe is
   made anymore, because they don't make any shoes. They make image, they
   make icon. The icon is valuable precisely because everybody knows it.
   
   WORTHINGTON: What kind of penetration does free software, GNU, Linux,
   whatever, need to have before these processes start to organize
   themselves?
   
   MOGLEN: It has it now. Whatever the relevant level of penetration is,
   it's here. We're now living in a very odd world with respect to free
   software. Under the skin of the beast, free software is everywhere.
   The penetration in the server market is nothing to worry about. So
   what we really mean is, what's the difference between the
   technologically clued-in and the technologically checked-out? And the
   answer is, what they use. How big does the technologically clued-in
   population have to be before new ways of thinking about politics and
   economics and society take hold? Quite large. But we're going there.
   It's like asking, 'What would the opposition to gas taxes in the
   United States be like in 1910?" - "Not enough drivers."
   
   We are going to a society which is not this one. We are always aiming
   at a moving target. The problem with analysis based on where we are
   now is that we are standing in the middle of tidal wave and trying to
   figure out how wet we are around the ankles. It just doesn't matter
   very much. One of the many lessons I've learned from Richard Stallman
   over my years of working with him is that I have strategic views and I
   would say, 'Richard, we need to have this. We need to have that. We
   need to do this or this or this to meet the current situation,' and
   Richard would say, 'What needs doing will get done. What people need,
   what people want, they'll make."
   
   WORTHINGTON: That seems to be GNU's organizing principle.
   
   MOGLEN: That's right, and that's an important lesson. We will get
   where we are going when the people who need to be there are around. I
   don't know how long that takes. I don't know exactly what the numbers
   are. I don't worry that they won't show up, and maybe questions in the
   form 'how many' are really questions in the form, 'How do you know
   they're all going to show up sooner or later?'
   
   WORTHINGTON: Or the question might be, how do you know there's not
   going simply to be a permanent 10%, or whatever percentage, of the
   deeply technologically literate, and everybody else? Two years ago, I
   corresponded with three people who used PGP - eight years ago I didn't
   know anybody using it - and today I still know three people who
   regularly use PGP. It does seem, and this might just be a generational
   question, that in today's world there's a certain group of people who
   are comfortable with these technologies and a larger group who aren't.
   
   MOGLEN: I think you are right there, but PGP may not be the good test,
   after all. The questions now that you want to ask have a pretty fine
   granularity. They have to do with which kinds of technology will get
   widely adopted and which kinds won't. Non-transparent encryption of
   e-mail is a specialist thing. If we sewed it into Eudora and
   distributed it to everybody they'd all use it, but they wouldn't know.
   They use the secure socket layer in their browser but they don't
   really know it's there because they don't see the little lock at the
   bottom of the page. This bites them sometimes. People you know are
   using encryption, they just don't know that they're encrypting. I do
   not think that encryption in itself will become something that
   everyone will know a lot about and care a lot about in the future.
   
   WORTHINGTON: How about open-source operating systems?
   
   MOGLEN: Now there, of course, eight years ago you didn't know anybody,
   and five years ago you knew four, and this year how many? Hundreds?
   
   WORTHINGTON: Actually, no. Probably just several.
   
   MOGLEN: That surprises me. If you go across the street and ask the
   undergraduates, it's cool, and to be a CS guy and not to have a Linux
   box, that's a weird thing. But we don't want the computer to be too
   fetishized as the most important thing in everybody's life. These are
   tools, and we do expect most people to have a pretty tool-like
   approach to them. What people are going to use these switches for, and
   how much they are going to care about who controls them, that remains
   to be seen. My sense is a little different from yours, because I
   believe that kids growing up with computers are going to want to know
   how to change them.
   
   WORTHINGTON: I hope that's true.
   
   MOGLEN: And you've expressed some doubt about that and that's the
   experiment we are conducting. We will find out which of us is right
   about that in another ten or fifteen years, and a lot rides on that.
   
   WORTHINGTON: The hopeful part of your story seems to lie in kids
   growing up on free software in Southeast Asia, kids who aren't being
   educated on Windows at all.
   
   MOGLEN: Well, some of them will use Windows. Of course, the problem is
   money. The problem is the very thing which in the end turns out to be
   really important in the contemporary, local environment. Microsoft
   makes $400 billion a year selling stuff, than which there is better
   available for nothing. In the pure microeconomics of this you would
   expect it to go away. Now, there are a whole lot of things that can be
   done to stave off the law of supply and demand - you can advertise
   heavily; you can give people fear, uncertainty and doubt; you can do
   all sorts of things - but at the end of the day there are billions of
   people all over the world who need computers and software and some way
   to connect. This is a major issue of economic resources. How can the
   free software not win? Where's the money going to come from to buy all
   those Windows licenses? We are, after all, engaged in a capitalist
   enterprise on a bad business model. If they want everybody to use it,
   at a minimum the price has to be zero. At a minimum.
   
   WORTHINGTON: Couldn't you have asked yourself the same question, and
   answered it with the same note of scorn in your voice six years ago?
   
   MOGLEN: Yes, you could. I don't know whether it takes fifteen or
   twenty years to do Microsoft in - what difference does it make?
   They're going down. You can't make less good stuff and sell it at high
   prices indefinitely when the good stuff is free. For different users
   there are different answers to these questions, but in a place where
   an awful lot of people all over the world need software and are not
   going to pay $90 for an operating system - which doesn't work, but
   which is compatible with all the other non-working operating systems
   all over the planet - they'll produce something else, and the
   something else will be free. And then they'll have an investment in
   free. Are the French actually going to require open-source software
   for government use? No, I don't think so, but it would be interesting
   to see what happens. Sooner or later, somebody will somewhere begin to
   recognize that societies pay pretty heavily for Windows too.
   
   WORTHINGTON: I didn't realize the French government was interested in
   the idea.
   
   MOGLEN: No, there's legislation pending - a couple of senators who are
   interested in the idea. But, again, massive amounts of resources are
   going into this. People are going to give up eventually. I don't know
   how long it will take.
   
   WORTHINGTON: We'll see. We should have this conversation again twenty
   years from now.
   
   MOGLEN: Oh, we'll all be having this conversation constantly.
   
    Preceding
   
   (c) 2000 Immaterial Incorporated
