Hi there. I'm in Shoal Bay, which is somewhere near Nelsons Bay / Fingal
Head (100km north of Newcastle). I'm doing a little computer geeking, a
little bush regeneration (removing lantana and bitou bush) - the latter of
which tends to result in my being jabbed by evil blood-sucking arachnids
called ticks, which, if you have never encountered them, is a state I
think you should try to maintain. I hate pulling the fuckers out of my
flesh and the itchy welt they leave.

There are *great* books here too - some old classics of the sciences.

Fisher, R.A. Statistical Methods for Research Workers (10th Edn) Oliver
and Boyd (1948). This is a classic work since it has in it the seeds of a
significant chunk of information theory, which eventually led to Roy
Frieden's recent work which casts all of physics as an artefact of how
much of the total amount of information, we can actually extract from
anything when we *measure* stuff - which is the mathematical equivalent of
epistemology (the limits of what we can know).

Bhat, U.N. Elements of Applied Stochastic Processes (1972) John Wiley and
Sons: ISBN 0-471-07199-4 ... yes, it's as boring as shit but has one great
little ref in it: p316, Social and behavioural processes - the Diffusion
of Information. Finally, the epidemiology of meme-spread, in a nutshell.
And, with a reference to N.T. Bailey's work (1957) "The mathematical
theory of epidemics" (Hafner, New York). Interestingly there's a bunch of
stuff here from a branch of maths called Queueing Theory, which is used
extensively in information stashing prior to transmission. 

There is also a utterly delightful one from S.B.Linder (1970, Columbia
Univ. Press) called "The Harried Liesure Classes" which is an
investigation into paucity of free time in our lives, the reasons for it
and the consequences of it. It is a breath of fresh air - written by, of
all people, an economist.

I think I'll get a copy of it sometime; the other two I'll pull out of the
library and photocopy the relevant bits.

I'm writing this offline. So you'll probably get this by late friday. It's
a reply to...:

From jocelynh@my-deja.com Sun Nov 19 14:32:36 2000
Date: Sat, 18 Nov 2000 17:23:56 -0800
From: jocelynh Last Name <jocelynh@my-deja.com>
To: predator@cat.org.au
Subject: Re: 2:40 Euphoria

>Hi there! I've just embarked on the powerstation.txt, and it's already
11kB long (about 190 lines of 80-col ASCII). I'm just starting the
<R>-rated bits. I'm finding it hard. Double entendre intended. 

> Tee-hee. One idiomatic expression in Elizabethan England was 'it shall
>go hard with you', meaning 'this is going to cause you difficulties', but
>used very effectively by both Shakespeare and Marlowe for its double
>entendre potential.

Hardy-har. Well, I guess that genital engorgement is just an occupational
hazard of writing porn. I'll live with it.

What I'm mainly remembering is in lots of *detail*. 

>>I think it's a consequence of my rare disease : gratuitous vocabulary. 

>I don't know that there is such a thing as excess baggage (verbiage) in
>that department.

I think there is- the time one takes to machine a sentence is prolonged if
one has to search for precisely the *right* shade of meaning amongst
thousands rather than hundreds. I dance around the dictionary in my head,
grasping at the offerings, and it distracts me from completing a sentence.


>>Now, I've shown you mine... you show me yours.

>Ooh...ok. I'm appending one or two things. 'Rubbish' was written when I
>was about 17, but I still like it. The other one is more recent. What I'd
>really like to do, though, is lend you a notebook of stuff I wrote when I
>was 15, at about the same time you wrote the stuff you lent me. I've
>never shown it to anyone before.

I liked 'em - especially the one expressing disdain for particular
poetical forms. I think we should write how we bloody well like 8-)

Wow! Perhaps you could bear to let me read yr notebook in your presence,
or maybe you read it to me? Feedback's a lot faster in voice-time.

> It contains a lot of painful sentiments  about my mum, which partly
> accounts for the shock of recognition I experienced when I read your
> stuff.

I get the same shock, even now... "That was me!" all those years ago, and
I can still hardly believe or understand the circumstances which led to my
writing all that stuff. Much of it remains, buried explosives. Getting rid
of God was easy. Getting rid of mother, well, that's a little harder.
There is, after all, a body of which to dispose, not to mention a bunch of
memories and accumulated junk. 8-(

> I think we are very similar in some ways (as far as I can tell,
> so far, she qualifies carefully...)

I agree. Maybe that's why we mesh so well on such generally incongrous 
fronts.

>> So I don't pay too much attention to expectations either way, I just do
>> what I do, be what I am, fuck it. 

> One of your many exciting qualities.

Yeah? Hmmm. 

>> I dunno what to expect of you so I just watch what happens. It's pretty
>> good.

Thank you!

>>{watch out for my reticence to accept compliments, or believe people's
>>positive expressions about me. For instance:}

>He he! I'm glad you're aware of this. And you know, your modesty is
>another attractive quality...see, you just can't win!

"There goes a loser, another loser run wild." -Electric Light Orchestra
(from the `Secret Messages' album, JET Records, 1990)

>>At the risk of spoiling a great letter with blunt fatalism,
>>statistically, this is unlikely to continue. I expect the things you're
>>finding out about me are actually pretty mundane and you happen to like
>>them a lot because you're finding them in _me_,

>? I don't understand the logic of this proposition. I like the things I
>see in you, both because they are things I see as 'objectively' good, but
>also because they seem to be integral aspects of your personality (as far
>as I can tell, she qualifies again), which is definitely not mundane.
>Think I'll stop there before I tangle myself up; suffice to say: I like
>you! A lot.

To follow a food metaphor, despite common and mundane ingredients, one can
nevertheless create an interesting dish with them, for the mundane stuff
is, when considered in its own right, still pretty good.

Can I ask, how many men's heads have you delved into, and how deeply have
you delved? What do you find there? I'm interested in your perspective
here. I came to the sad conclusion in 1998 that most of the {men} at my
ten-year reunion were simply 26-year-old teenagers, mainly yobs interested
in cars'n'piss'n'footy.

"You're a yob, or you're a wanker, take your fucking choice.
 Who is your favourite genius - James Hurd or James Joyce?
 ...
 If a yob and wanker want a girl, the wanker guy will get her.
 Though both of them are equally ugly, the wanker hides it better."

-TISM: "Whatareya" 
 from the album www.tism.wanker.com (1998, Shock Records)


>>but maybe I just think they're mundane 'cos I live with me all the time
>>and have come not to notice them, so I don't know and will probably just
>>have to take you on spec here.

>Yes, that would be it!

>>I'd rather be accepted as I am, rather than as I could be construed,

>This is a tricky one. I think to a certain extent we always present the
>'best' parts of our personalities to each other, which allows others to
>form a construction of us that we can live with, that affirms our
>perceptions of ourselves as we would like to be. 

Yes.

>At least, I have identified this tendency in myself. As long as we're
>aware that we're doing that, I don't think it's too much of a problem.

Good. I am mightily impressed with what I construe as your understanding
of your own nature, and the realisation that this understanding can often
be applied to understanding other people too. Is this the origin of
empathy? We come to understand others when we learn to understand
ourselves.

>>Cool, I'm looking forward to 'em. I'll have to account for
>>how I was ten years ago, I guess, but that's OK. 

> The child is father to the man...oops, damn those Biblical quotations!
> Sorry, it's hard to ignore such a vast storehouse of poetry just because
> some silly ideologues have messed it up here and there.

I remember the quote, not the author in this case.

>>Lap it up while I last, but don't get tooo atttached, pal, I'm
>>programmed to rot like everything else biological, and besides, you'll
>>be immersed in another beautiful human in a few months, lapping them up
>>(good! I encourage it) with the same happy amazement you feel now. Don't
>>become so besotted that you restrict yourself to me.

>Would this be your defence mechanisms snapping into place, or are you
>trying to protect me by triggering mine? 

Yes on both counts. I also, however, expect my projected scenario to be a
likely one. I feel I should prepare for it as best I can, but I don't know
if it is necessary, for I have no guarantee of its occurrence anyway. So
maybe I should just shuddup and enjoy. 


"A siege mentality is ultimately self-defeating." - Worf 
(the things I remember from Trek-NextGen... sheesh, another fairy tale)

> If we concentrate on the future, it makes it difficult to see what is
> happening now. I would regret it profoundly if I had reserved myself in
> my interactions with you because I was waiting to see what or who came
> along next.

You know, you're right. For my part, I'm not waiting _for_ anybody.

> I've been thinking a bit about what I told you, about the attraction to
> people wearing off. It doesn't always happen. I've become much better at
> making friends over the last few years, and every one of my close
> friends still make me feel excited and rapturous when I see them. 

Excellent! I think when we've gained enough complexity and self-awareness
we tend to know how to form better friendships, seeking out people who
look like potentially interesting friends and cultivating the friendship.
Pity it only took me thirty years...

"Off I go to the men's room, for the seventh time today.
 My bladder no longer hears me, no matter what I say;
 I count the tiles in front of me and wait for the trickle to fall.
 I've gone and pissed thirty years up against a fuckin' wall! 
 
-TISM: "The Mens Room" 
 from the album www.tism.wanker.com (1998, Shock Records)

I have about hmmm.... four really serious friends whom I have known for
about ten years (diode, nacho_man, edgar and lou-deg). It is hence correct
to say I was mostly friendless for the first twenty. I've not shagged with
any of these four (the last is a woman, and she says she prefers shagging
other women). These are people who were to a considerable extent
influential in the course of my personal evolution. I *like* being with
them, they've explored the universe with me and explained to me their
understanding thereof when they thought it necessary. Sometimes I don't
see them for months. 

Some people have mentioned that I'm remiss in talking to them. I am
comfortable with quiet solitude (the willow tree where I first noticed
this preference in primary school has been chopped down but fortunately
replaced). I say to them that I treat my friends like favoured books, I
like to know where I can find them when I want to think about stuff. At
this stage I can't say I've had a long-term friendship with anyone with
whom I have also shagged; put another way, anyone I've shagged tends to
run/go/drift away. I cannot tell if this will continue to be the case, but
I think I understand the reason - I've deliberately developed what I have
jokingly referred to as a contraceptive personality.

The motivation for this is mainly that I do not want to be the object of a
woman's attentions if she's primarily interested in me as a potential cash
source (happily, being broke and deliberately scruffy repels most such
individuals); I'd prefer she was adequately equipped to think deeply about
things generally, and be interested in something other than what I
depressingly perceive to be an almost ubiquitous - and widely cultivated
by the media - female obsession with the needless acquisition of consumer
junk. I like to be able to talk to people about complex internal stuff,
and feel adequately understood. Maybe it's plainly egotistical on my part,
maybe it's a reaction against the personal shallowness and ludicrously
excessive junk collecting behaviour of my mum {ghaaaard, ever ranting on
about his mother, when's he ever gonna grow up!??}. Maybe you or someone
else can figure out a better explanation. Anyways, it's where I am now,
and probably explains a lot about the general profile of my acquaintances
and the bizarre nature of some parts of my weltanschauung. Mummy's boy?
Yes, although not in the conventional sense. I don't care for her opinions
and yet, still, so much of what I am is a reaction against what she _is_.
So much for independance. The child is father to ... the child?

Since the number of women with whom I've shagged (AND also deeply
investigated their view of the world) is small, I realise my view of women
will be necessarily incomplete and very badly skewed in a number of ways.
My current understanding does not exclude the possibility of a long-term
friendship with a woman where we also happen to share and enjoy each
other's carcases.

{you might have noticed, I like the word `carcase', I think it sounds sort
of funny, mainly because it rhymes with my dad'd name. Marcus-da-carcase,
giggle.}

I think the main composition of my personality has pretty much stabilised
now (at the ripe old age of twenty-nine), however, this might change if
it's exposed to new stuff which it has not dealt with previously. Who
knows.

Fuck, what a load of insanely neurotic baggage. Why don't I just go to an
airport and lose it like everyone else apparently does?

> Some of them are people I have explored sex with, some of them are not.
> I think the real danger is that when/if the romantic or sexual component
> of a relationship with someone ends, it's all to easy to try to demonise
> that person rather than admit it was a mistake, or an aspect of the
> relationship that is just no longer applicable. 

I'm always gripped by a desire to warmly hug those few with whom I have
shagged, and to whom I've bared bits of my core (my ever tolerant
deflowerer, for instance) - mainly to say "I'm still grateful, still happy
we shared what we did, I hope you're OK" but I don't seek them out, partly
because I might be misconstrued as just wanting another shag, and think it
could be stressful for all concerned.

I'm not convinced that shaggings are mistakes - I think they are learning
experiences; it is what we learn - or fail to learn - through them which
determines if the *participants* contain mistakes, such as the (mistaken)
opinion that either/both was up to the task of maintaining a long-term
friendship with a sexual component, or whatever.

When does shagging cease to be applicable? What are the criteria which
determine this?

See also: TIHKAL - Sex, drugs and the older players (Shulgin and Shulgin)

> Once again, if we can see that happening, it gives us greater control
> over the way we behave, and allows us to treat people more carefully. I
> hope.

Yeah. Have you any further insights on this, garnered from historical
literature or your own experience?

> One of the things Sabine, my yoga teacher and good friend, wrote on
> some yoga instructions she gave me was this: 'Feelings need space.
> Emotions need control.' I'm still trying to get my head around that one,

Feelings are what we detect; emotions are how we react to what we detect,
but that's just my interpretation, and I wasn't there, so I might be
totally wrong here, there and anywhere else.

>but I can see in a way what she means (hence frequency of lying on
>floor bawling eyes out after yoga classes, hm...)

Hmm. 

> >Heh. A note: the glass eyes were something I picked up in Melbourne.  
<chop>

>Tee-hee. Reminds me of a mug my mum has with a very realistic clay frog
>stuck to the bottom. Nothing like draining your cup of tea to find a frog
>staring at you. 

Hmmm... I must locate the eyes and epoxy one into dad's tea mug. I did a
great stunt on him about ten years ago, I refilled an empty tube of
toothpaste with water and left it near the basin; he says he picked it up,
squeezed and covered the bathroom mirror with watery lumps of goop. 

>Cue excited giggles from Jocelyn.
>Love,
>Jocelyn

Hmmm... wish I could send this now, but I'm a lone laptop.

By the way, what shall we get up to on december the 5th? Have you a
activity/location in mind?

I'm gonna continue documenting our fun day at White Bay. Its already 50kb
long!

see ya!



*kiss*

<predator>
