
Homelessness Week 2001 : South Sydney Council gives squatters the boot
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
By <predator> - no fixed address  May 18 2001

Look, I'm biased. I lived in the buildings in question, with the squatters
in question, for roughly a year. Now I'm gonna report on it. Of course I'm
biased. I'm a squatter, and now, with a little help from local government
and property developers, I'm a vagrant. Here's my version.

I'd popped up the road early on Thursday morning to have some breakky...
the Garrison - my squat - had its kitchen rather more diarrayed than usual
since most of my squatmates had taken their utensils and cookware out in
anticipation of the eviction.

May 16 was a day chosen months ago during negotiations between squatters,
developers and council, as the day when the buildings had to be handed
over prior to demolition. The idea was that we'd be staying in these
buildings for the longest possible time, and that demolition was the event
was the only which would force us to leave. This would give us time to
finally get our holy grail - a Caretaker's Lease agreement - towards which
we'd been working for months, and which would legally permit us to occupy
the building rent-free in exchange for remediating it and keeping it in
good condition.

We'd created (at our own expense) and submitted (also at our own expense)  
our development application to re-zone the place residential instead of
commercial - they hadn't expected us to do that. We're just a bunch of
dole bludging loafers, right? Uh, no. AM radio shock jocks like Alan Jones
and disgraces to reputable journalism like Miranda Devine really have no
clue.

We'd also gone to a lot of personal effort and expense to make the place
electrically safe. We installed a lot of the fittings, removed shonky
wiring left by the previous tennants, and paid an independant licensed
electrical contractor to inspect and certify the work. We also had to get
it certified for fire safety by acquiring and installing exit signs,
repairing staircases, installing extinguishers and plastering the ceiling
with smoke detectors. We hired a building inspector to grant the
certification. We also installed a shower in the Garrison and a sink in
the YoYo (the adjacent squatted building). Sydney Housing Action
Collective also managed to arrange public liability insurance on the
place.

Council had failed to sign the agreement due to a procedural glitch on
their part. So, they were scared that if they did sign a lease, we'd be
able to stay for two weeks since in NSW leasees have a guaranteed two
weeks notice prior to getting the arse, which would impede Australand
Walker's plan to flatten the place. 

We knew there wasn't going to be a demolition since Masterpiece Pictures,
Costa Lianos' art framing (and all-night alarm siren) shop just up the
road from us, was still trading, and in any case, the conspicuous absence
of heavy earthmoving equipment in the adjacent carpark, or fencing off of
the premises and closure of traffic access to the back lane, was something
of a giveaway too. 

I returned at about 8:20am to find a bunch of utility vehicles parked on
the Broadway footpath. The Spontaneous Construction group, artists from
Perth who had been sleeping on the shopfront floor of the YoYo, were
wandering around on the footpath with a bunch of parka-wearing, stilson
wielding workmen haloed around them, and various goons from the Council
standing around pretending to look important.

I walked further along and discovered a workman trying (ineptly, I
noticed) to pick the front door lock on the Garrison - my home of the last
year or so - with a manual lockpicking gun. I amusedly held the front door
key in my pocket and decided I'd leave him to absorb himself in the rather
prolonged task of trying to pick a lock without remembering to apply the
tension wrench to the cylinder at the same time. Amenable to the clever,
obstructive to the stupid - aren't locks a wonderful thing?

I went back to the YoYo and walked in. Some utility company guy was
wandering around with a disconnected gas meter in his hand. I noticed a
large puddle where the mains water feed used to come in, they'd apparently
cut that off, too. At least the lights were on. They weren't when I came
back at midnight.

We'd detached the hot water systems the day before, and stashed them
offsite. They still work, and we'll use them in the next building which we
squat in. I imagine they'd be in landfill, or little bits, now, if we
hadn't rescued them.

I popped through the trapdoor and went via the basement to the Garrison to
get my stuff. I'd removed my fairly minimal gear over the previous few
days. I salvaged the power point I'd installed in my room, screwed the
windows shut to prevent entry via the awning, packed my tools and sleeping
bag and headded down to the kitchen. Skye and Lisa were making breakfast.
Thumping sounds were coming through the wall, we guessed from the council
workmen in the process of rendering next door uninhabitable.

I had work to do that day, so I left. Lisa barricaded the door behind
me. It turns out that they never made it into the Garrison. Thankfully.

I came back at midnight and surveyed the devastation. It was in many ways
the same feeling you get when your home is burgled and the intruders go to
their usual perverse effort to randomise everything. The taps and shower
head rested where they'd fallen, on the bottom of the shower. They'd been
thorough. I couldn't bring myself to look at the kitchen and upstairs
bathroom... our kitchen where we'd laughed, cooked and eaten together, the
sink we installed, and where we had washed hundreds of dishes generated by
the monday night Dumpster Cafes. We'd held film nights in the back yard,
doof parties in the back lane, art exhibitions in the shopfronts. This
sort of stuff never happens in Meriton apartments. It was a real
community, of which I was proud to be a part, as were all of us.

Home. 

Once.
 
Not long after I'd arrived the council workers had smashed the handbasins
in the YoYo's bathrooms into small white chunks of gleaming porcellain. It
always looks weird to see copper pipes sticking out of the wall and
jutting into the air dripping slowly like the veins of a slaughtered
animal. Uncharacteristically they'd left the toilets alone, (Fowler Ware,
you see), but they weren't much use with the water disconnected.

I went over to the Keep and from there went to the Citadel. MickyQuick was
upstairs, Danni was asleep on a mattress. 
 
Micky filled me in on the day's events.

While the demolition of the inside of YoYo was taking place,  frantic
phone conversations took place, between some of the friendlier councillors
and the squatters. The squatters on the phones were insisting that there
were these guys smashing the place up, other squatters were screaming to
the workmen not to smash the place up, and the councillors were insisting
that wasn't the plan, and it couldn't be happening. 

Eventually the goons left. 

Word made it to the squatters that there was to be a meeting on the 11th
floor of the council building, between the South Sydney council and
representatives of the developers. And, squatters were explicitly not
invited. So a posse of them went around there, got in the elevator,
emerged from the elevator to see a paper sign stuck on the door saying 
"BROADWAY MEETING". The squatters arrived first.

What was funny initially, Mick told me, was that none of the official
parties understood who had invited the squatters, so there was the usual
initial friendliness about finding enough seats, and so on. 

People sat down and the rather heated discussion started. Eventually they
clued in to the fact that nobody had invited my squatting buddies to the
meeting.

Squat members claimed that the place had been smashed, and then, when
councillors directly asked the building Building Services director "You
didn't smash it up, did you?" he said "Uhhhhhm, yes."

Lucas was very forthright when he weighed in with this comment - "Well,
would you consider this a bungle?" - there wasn't a lot of disagreement.

Eventually the squatters left the meeting after the Australand Walker
representative stated repeatedly that he did not want the squatters there.
It's always uncomfortable to see the faces who suffer the consequences of
your decisions, isn't it?

We learned of the decisions later in the day. Other squatters filled me in
at night. 

South Sydney Mayor John Fowler's long rant in the Sydney Morning Herald
had gone to press that morning, blaming the State Government for the rise
in homelessness. Not long after the accusations of building-wreckage
started crossing the table, he stormed out of the room.

It is totally incredible to me that he can write "To have hundreds of
people sleeping outdoors in a country as wealthy as Australia is
appalling" and yet be so pre-pubertally petulant as to refuse to even stay
in the room while a meeting was on to decide the future accommodation of a
bunch of people he's done nothing but hinder in their search for a
dwelling for the past year. We are no longer a wealthy country -
transnational companies own and control pretty much everything, and we're
stricken by a poverty of vision - a poverty which the Mayor's behaviour
demonstrates.

He then writes - as if he's learnt to recite it from a Real Estate
Management public relations course - "As a community we need to work
together, at all levels of government, and together with charities and all
other concerned residents to provide all citizens of this country with, at
the very least, food, health care and accomodation."

I suppose self-government isn't included in that statement.

I suppose making unused infrastructure available to encourage autonomous
housing isn't included either.

I suppose he's revolted at the fine feasts we create from the vast
quantity of fresh produce discarded and then salvaged by us from the
dumpsters at Coles and Bi-Lo up the road.

Not only that, he hides behind Wesley Mission's David Pocklington's remark
that South Sydney Council doesn't "have the funding or the legislative
responsibility for the issue", and at the same time, in his capacity as
Mayor, knows that the Council *does* have is a list of empty, publically
owned buildings under their control - a list as long as your arm - and a
crew of people who have demonstrated that, in exchange for forfeited rent,
they can bring a building up to a state suitable for certification
insurance and inhabitation off their own backs. 

The resources, the skills, the people, the buildings and the track record
are all available to provide a viable, cheap and self-managed alternative
to homelessness in the city. 

What the fuck else does he want?

Money, obviously. It makes a lot of money when you knock these things down
and sell the land to developers. If the government won't pad his wallet
then the sell-off of public assets to developers will do it instead.
Council can rip fat rates out of hundreds of apartment owners. Squatting
solves a social problem but doesn't make any bucks for the council, so
it's off the list. It solves the wrong sort of problems - the ones which
shouldn't exist in the first place.

We've been up his nose, solving the homelessness problem OUR way for
twelve months and he didn't even mention squatting. For pity's sake, 24
people have taken themselves off the streets using mothballed public
infrastructure. Even during the olympics when there was not an empty
mattress anywhere for fifty kilometres.

Obviously, it works, if the powers that be would simply leave us alone and
let us do what we need to do.

I think he wants something else.

Honestly, this discrepancy between what he writes and what he does
qualifies him as either as a schizoid or a pathological liar. What he
wants is professional help. And take Reichsfüehrer/Councillor Shane
Mallard with you when you get it.

So we can stay in the Garrison for another three weeks. Great. Yes, I'm
being sarcastic. It isn't great. Fucked if I or my housemates can be
bothered moving stuff in again only to move it out again in less than a
month. In case the 100,000 vehicles an hour's worth of traffic noise on
Broadway isn't irritating enough, if the demolition order isn't a lie,
we'll also be awoken to the ruckus of the neighboring buildings being
demolished, their perfectly good (and in some cases antique) fittings
being mashed into landfill. And YoYo's inhabitant's will love living
somewhere with no plumbing or power. You won't find a more classical
example in how to turn a bunch of residents into transients.

Council had no intention of demolishing the place this week. What they
wanted was to demolish the Caretaker's Lease precedent. No way in hell do
they want people to independantly act to house themselves and have hard
earnt legal rights enabling them to do it.

They reckon they'll demolish the old Phoenician club first - but I doubt
it - they've got a showroom in there which displays the nice shopfronts
and apartments which are going to be built there.

The Garrison will live long enough to get the lease going and will
apparently be the last building they demolish, due to structural
problems they'll have with the centagenarian Blackwattle Bay trunk
stormwater tunnel which runs adjacent to it. Bollocks too. I've been
up it, and it's big enough to sleeve - if it falls down then it's only
because the Sydney Water Board have been lax in their maintenance (which
is to be expected since Paul Broad axed the maintenance department in the
1990s when he became the (mis)Managing Director of the SWB, and chunked
off the Water Board's heavy construction machinery and maintenance
infrastructure as Australian Water technologies) of the tunnel. 

Unless of course the backhoe operator drives onto and accidentally
collapses it, which I saw happen at Wollstonecraft at the demolition of
the century-old sandstone tunnel adjacent to the gasworks. 

As I write, other empty buildings in this locality have had their locks
changed, and are undergoing the first steps on the path to becoming a new
squat - floors are being cleaned, windows fixed, doors reinforced,
fittings installed. Regardless of the aggressive actions of the council
and their monied friends Meriton, Australand/Walker, Delfin and the like,
squatting will continue, and we will not go away.

In a long-term irony I find truly delicious, I look to history to
demonstrate that the new developments - thrown together quickly for
maximum profit with cheap materials and shoddy construction - will be
gentrified and become ripe pickings for mass community squatting in about
forty years. The developers are simply sewing the seeds of the squatting
revolution. Apartments will no longer keep people apart - when squatted,
finally, they will bring people together and rebuild the fabric of the
communities we have currently lost.

A security guard - icon of the age - will eventually read this inscription
on my bedroom wall, and fail to understand that Churchill was on the
winning side.


We will go on to the end.
We will defend our island, whatever the cost may be.
We will fight on the beaches.
We will fight on the landing grounds.
We will fight in the fields and in the streets.
We will fight in the hills.
We will never surrender.




Squat the lot!

<predator>
