From predator@cat.org.au Sun Jun 16 01:04:55 2002
Date: Sat, 15 Jun 2002 00:09:18 +1000 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: sean roberts <secretquoll@hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: Can you give me your comments on this?

Sean, thanks for your persistance with me. Here's the rant.
My mol-bio comments are prefaced with  a ">" 

Go well!

<predator>
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

FOREST STEWARDSHIP COUNCIL

AVENIDA HIDALGO 502, 68000 OAXACA, MEXICO
TEL:+ 52 9 514 6905      FAX:+ 52 9 516 2110
e-mail: fscoax@fscoax.org
website: www.fscoax.org





	GMOs: Genetically Modified Organisms: Draft Interpretation for FSC


Document Reference:		BM-19.22
Date:				10 May 2000
Author(s):			Timothy J. Synnott
Action:				Decision



Motion 9, approved at the General Assembly was as follows

"The GA reaffirms its support for the current prohibition on the use of GMOs 
by certified forest operations but recognising the growing intensity and 
complexity of the debate mandates the Board to
a) clarify the existing definition of GMOs and
b) complete drafting the FSC policy on GMOs.
This policy should address among other things the Precautionary Principle.
A draft of such clarification and policy should be submitted to the 
membership for review and comment within 6 months."

In fulfilment of the Motion, the attached document was widely circulated in 
October 1999, based on previous drafts, also widely circulated.

This draft does not explicitly address the Precautionary Principle, pending 
some progress with Motion 20.

The Board is asked to approve the attached FSC Interpretation, pending 
future revision when required.

Proposed Motion. The Board approves the attached FSC Interpretation on
GMOs (subject to changes agreed at the Board Meeting).  This
interpretation may be revised in future, based on new information.




GMOs: Genetically Modified Organisms:		Draft interpretation for FSC

Revised January, March, June, July, October 1999	T J Synnott

Introduction
1	Definition and interpretation
2	Implications for certification
3	Potential benefits and risks
4	Future developments or options and research

INTRODUCTION

Since the FSC Principles and Criteria were adopted in 1995, FSC members have 
pointed out the weakness of the definition of GMOs. Certification bodies 
have pointed out the difficulties in ensuring a uniform interpretation of 
this definition in practice.   Forestry enterprises have informed FSC that 
uncertainties about this policy are one reason why they do not seek 
certification.  This paper is an attempt at clarification.

This draft has been prepared by secretariat staff.  It does not have 
official status as an FSC position.     After appropriate amendment, with 
approval by the board of directors, it will be added to the FSC Guidelines 
for Certification Bodies, which is part of the agreement between FSC, CBs 
and NIs.  Please send your comments to the secretariat.

1	DEFINITION AND INTERPRETATION


The FSC Principles & Criteria include two references to GMOs:

Criterion 6.8	Use of Genetically modified organisms shall be prohibited.

Definition Genetically modified organisms:  biological organisms which
have been induced by various means to consist of genetic structural
changes.

> or, more accurately, are encoded for by genetic material in wich changes
> have been artificially induced 

The P&C may be modified only by a decision of FSC members, at General 
Assembly or postal ballot.   An interpretation is more flexible, and may be 
modified at any time, provided that it is fully consistent with the FSC P&C. 
  For increased clarity, the following interpretation is proposed for 
operational use:

An organism is any biological entity capable of replication or of 
transferring genetic material.  Genetically modified organism (GMO) means an 
organism in which the genetic material has been altered in a way that does 
not occur naturally by mating and/or natural recombination or both.

> This is a pretty watertight definition. Perhaps, however, it does not
> apply to a single cell taken from an organism, since it could be
> argued that the individual cell is not the same thing as the organism in
> question. I would suggest the definition be extended to recognise the 
> possibility of an organism being either single-celled or multicellular.
> But that's really legal hairsplitting. Sorry for that.

Examples of genetic modification covered by this definition include the 
following:
*	Recombinant DNA techniques using viral or bacterial vector systems.
* Techniques involving the direct introduction into an organism of heritable 
material such as DNA prepared outside the organism, including microinjection 
and micro-encapsulation.
*	Cell fusion (including protoplast fusion) or hybridisation techniques 
where live cells with new combinations of heritable genetic material are 
formed through the fusion of two or more cells by means of methods which do 
not occur naturally.

The following techniques are not considered to result in genetic 
modification, on condition that they do not involve the use of recombinant 
DNA molecules or GMOs as recipient or parental organisms:
*	in vitro fertilization,

> IVF typically does not modify the genome of the organism other than to
> enable the offspring to evade various fertility failures incumbent on
> either parent. For example, taking sperm from a man with a low sperm
> count, and transferring the DNA from that sperm directly into an oocyte, 
> gives rise to offspring which would normally never occur, and which may
> thus inherit a genetic propensity to produce too few/defective sperm
> if they are male and the infertility is as a result of a heritable
> genetic defect which would normally never propagate due to the
> infertility it normally promotes in the afflicted parent.

*	conjugation, transduction, transformation or any other natural process,

> Some plant viri do in fact modify the genomes of the host plant cells,
> even though this is a natural process, the plant cells in question are
> certainly GMO's.


*	polyploidy induction,

>Polyploidy induction is unquestionably a genetic modification. Since the 
>DNA copying procedure is not error-free, an n-ploid organism will have,
>in its original genes, sequences of DNA which are different to those in
>the mn-ploid species (where m is the level of polyploidy induced - for
>example, wild type bananas are not triploid as are the ones you typically
>get in the supermarket). Ploidy influences fertility, disease
>resistance, growth rates and numerous other aspects of plant development.
 


*	mutagenesis,

>Mutagenesis, by definition, is a process by which single or multiple
>changes are made to a string of DNA.

>Mutagenesis procedures, when performed on wild organisms, also quite
>definately produce heritable genetic modifications (mutants), regardless
>of wether this mutagenesis is site-specific or stochastic. Stochastic
>mutagenesis, such as is induced by exposure to radiation more than usually
>available at background levels, or by exposure to chemicals which
>cause errors in an organism's DNA, modifies the genomes of organisms so
>treated, often in unpredictable ways. If particular genes are damaged by
>mutagenesis, particularly those genes encoding enzymes responsible for
>error correction in DNA copying or synthesis, the mutant is unlikely to 
>contain a stable genome down the generations subsequent to mutagenesis.
>Site specific mutagenesis typically alters particular genes, or
>promotors, but the long term ecosystemic effects of this are typically
>impossible to predict in advance. Organisms subjected to site specific
>mutagenesis are also GMOs, including those subjected to 
>site specific mutagenesis which produces alleles known to exist in 
>other strains of the same organism : this is because this mutant 
>allele, although also found in other wild strains, may never normally 
>exist in the same organism as the one in which it now has been
>articifially induced to exist, by a mutagenic process.


*	cell fusion (including protoplast fusion) of plant cells where the 
resultant organisms 	can also be produced by traditional breeding methods.

>Provided the resultant organism from both procedures is identical in
>every respect.


Clones, hybrids formed by natural processes, or the products of traditional 
tree breeding, selection, grafting, vegetative propagation or tissue culture 
are not GMOs, unless produced by GMO techniques.

This wording is adapted from EC definitions and Directive 90/220, and from a 
UK Government Health and Safety Executive publication on Contained Use of 
GMOs.

2	IMPLICATIONS FOR CERTIFICATION

The FSC General Assembly in June 1999 approved the following motion by an 
overwhelming majority:


"The GA reaffirms its support for the current prohibition on the use of GMOs 
by certified forest operations but recognising the growing intensity and 
complexity of the debate mandates the Board to
		a) clarify the existing definition of GMOs and
b) complete drafting the FSC policy on GMOs.
This policy should address among other things the Precautionary Principle.
A draft of such clarification and policy should be submitted to the 
membership for review and comment within 6 months."

The use of GMOs is prohibited in certified forests, and would normally 
constitute a major failure of Principle 6.

Certification bodies will set pre-conditions or conditions on candidates for 
certification, wherever the candidate forest management units use or contain 
GMOs in their management, production or research programmes. They will set 
similar Corrective Action Requests on certified forest management units 
found to be using GMOs. Such requirements may include eliminating the GMOs, 
ceasing all use of GMOs, and/or decertification or disposal of the property 
containing GMOs.

3	POTENTIAL BENEFITS AND RISKS

Recent reviews of the use of GMOs in plantation forestry demonstrate that 
they offer potential economic and technical benefits, and also carry risks, 
especially environmental risks for biodiversity and ecosystems.   The 
potential benefits and risks are taken seriously, and are covered by an 
extensive literature and ongoing research.  The need for continued research, 
safeguards and regulation is widely acknowledged.

The potential economic benefits include increased productivity or 
profitability. Potential environmental and social benefits may include 
increased resistance to drought, salinity and diseases, allowing trees to be 
more easily established for firewood production, soil conservation, shade or 
windbreaks in marginal environments. They may reduce the use of pesticides, 
by introducing herbicide, virus or insect resistance. They may reduce the 
environmental impact of pulp mills, by using trees with modified lignin.

>I'm interested to hear what the impact of modified lignin will be on 
>those organisms dependant upon, and adapted for the digestion of, normal
>lignin, and it would be interesting to know what they will produce when
>fed it.

>The creation of plants which can tolerate poor nutrients, salinity, harsh
>aeolian environments, drout and also exhibit superior pest resistance is
>roughly the same procedure as one would go through to create the ideal
>indestructable noxious weed.

The potential undesirable effects are also numerous. In most cases, the 
potential effects and the probability of their occurring are uncertain.  
These hazards, and the uncertainties about them, are the reason for the 
prohibition of the use of GMOs in certified forests, stated in the FSC 
Principles and Criteria.

According to recent publications, the potential hazards of GMO trees include 
the following:

1 Reduced diversity:  Plantations using one or few transgenic clones will
contain less landscape-level diversity than is currently found in
plantations using species or varieties resulting from traditional
tree-breeding.

2 Asexual transfer of genes from GMOs with antibiotic resistance to
pathogenetic micro organisms, and/or suppression of mycorrhizae and other
micro-organisms, arising from use of GMOs with antibiotic resistance.

3 Spread of herbicide resistance gene in sexual progeny to trees in
environments where those trees are undesirable and where the target
herbicide is used, and/or increased weed resistance to target herbicide,
and/or increased use of target herbicide arising from use of GMOs with
herbicide resistance.

4 Increased resistance of target insect pests, and/ deleterious effects on
natural enemies of the target insects, and/or deleterious effects on
non-target insects such as butterflies, pollinators and soil microbes,
arising from use of GMOs with insect resistance.

5	Changes to structural integrity, adaptation and pest resistance of trees, 
rate of decay of dead wood, and soil structure, biology or fertility, 
arising from use of GMOs with modified lignin chemistry.

6	Dispersal of transgene to wild or weed populations, with potentially 
negative impacts, from non-sterile GMO trees, or from those with incomplete 
or unstable sterility.

7	Restricted or monopolistic access to advantages, arising from high costs 
or limited availability of GMO trees.

8	Reduced biodiversity of organisms dependent on flowers and fruits, arising 
from use of sterile GMOs.

9	Reduced adaptability to environmental stress, changes to interaction with 
other organisms, and increased weediness or invasiveness, in GMO trees with 
new features.

>That's pretty thorough! Well done.

More knowledge and experience are required before it will be possible to 
assess quantitatively the magnitude of these risks, or their likelihood.  
Unfortunately, many of the potential negative effects may arise as a result 
of field research, even from research designed to test such effects. For 
this reason, not even research into GMOs may be included in certified 
forests. Safeguards and restrictions on such research, to allow confident 
prediction, assessment and avoidance of the risks, are not yet formulated or 
agreed.

FSC guidelines, strictly interpreted, do not rule against research into GMOs 
as such, but only against FSC endorsement of forests containing such 
research.  FSC cannot endorse forests containing field trials carrying 
significant but unquantifiable risks, in the absence of agreed safeguards 
and regulation.

Research is continuing to develop safeguards to minimise the risks of these 
hazards. However, this research must be spread over several years.  A 
guarantee of permanent, irreversible sterility would help to reduce several 
of the risks, but prolonged tests are required to test the stability of 
induced sterility over time and through a range of environmental stresses.   

>Programming a forest's trees to never reproduce is a recipe for long 
>term desertification. Consider the accidental collapse of the single
>company with the rights to grow these trees. When they all die, as
>trees are eventually known to do, there would be no replacement crop, and
>if enough of the original wild-strain trees have disappeared, nowhere to 
>get seeds or seedlings to replace the GM-sterile stand. See:
> http://cat.org.au/~predator/mol.html  about terminator technology

 The difficulties of avoiding the spread of transgenes, and the potential 
negative impacts, indicate that much of this research must be conducted in 
laboratories or in extreme isolation.  Only then will it be possible to 
agree on the regulations and safeguards needed for further research and 
field trials.


4	FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS OR OPTIONS AND RESEARCH

Like all FSC policies, this policy and its interpretation may be changed by 
due process.  FSC welcomes suggestions from interested stakeholders.   
Already, some stakeholders have suggested that FSC should allow greater 
flexibility towards certain genetic modifications under research, which 
might offer environmental, social or economic benefits, without risk to the 
goals of FSC.  Further research may help to better define the risks, 
benefits and safeguards.


Meanwhile, the risks make it necessary to apply strict and obligatory 
safeguards for field research trials of GMOs in forestry.   As a precaution, 
in the absence of such agreed and implemented safeguards, FSC does not 
endorse the certification of forests containing or using GMOs in research or 
management.


Reference:	IUFRO (1999) Position Statement on Transgenic Plantations. 
Working Party on Molecular Biology of Forest Trees 2.04.06.    Position 
statement on Benefits and Risks of Transgenic Plantations. Oxford, Forest 
Biotechnology meeting, July 1999.

TJS . Oaxaca . Revised October 1999.







This document has been prepared for consideration by the FSC Board of 
Directors it is not an authoritative statement of FSC policies.


Document: BM-19.22	page 1
GMOs: Genetically Modified Organisms:  Draft Interpretation for FSC




> <predator> thanks you for the opportunity to peruse this document.


---------------------
<predator>

