

>The mix of Windows/Linux is often discussed in person , at meetings, on
>Thursday nights etc. The current mix (including the rightmost computer
>being Windows ) is the current comprise solution.

It sort-of evolved to be that way. I don't recall that there was ever
really a compromise, rather that there was accommodation made to people's 
investment in their learning of the Windows interface, apps, etc. 



>I dont believe that you can just announce you are changing it
>(on catgeek list which is not a collective "decision making" list anyway)

Yeah, catgeek's more a confessional for documenting what I just managed to
break - without prior collective decision-making    9-)


>without some sort of question being asked. Hugh JJ Leah for instance are
>Windows users and heavily involved in the collective. 

{I've delivered big rants about this before, because it's important.
Maybe nobody reads them but I can't stop trying.}

Yeah, some sort of questions should be asked. Like, why ARE we helping to
keep people dependant upon MS products? Why are we setting Leah, Jj, Hugh
and others up to discover that can't make software contributions to CAT in
a couple of years, because their tools will have turned against the
intentions of their users?

Leah, Hugh, JJ and others make important contributions to Cat and they
happen to currently use M$ tools to make them. These people, and other
contributors who use M$ tools, have an important decision to make in the
coming months/years, which will determine wether or not they can continue
to make their contribution to cat, active, indymedia (etc) using Micro$oft
tools. This decision is not one they will be given a choice to make - it
will be forced upon them, as Micro$oft decisions always are.

The contributions they currently make can only occur because as it now
stands, they can run M$ tools locally on their machines, write agnostic
code which works on non-M$ servers, they can save files locally on a
floppy or slap 'em down on a harddisk and use nonproprietary protocols to
sftp it to our servers.  This will not remain the case for much longer.

Here's the dark future:

Suppose they want to write, say, a html page to go on cat.org.au; is there
a _text_ editor on Win2000 which will save with the filename blah.html?
NO! It's forcibly called blah.html.txt .. there is NO way to get around
this under the win2k version of notepad. So you turn to their latest
version of frontpage... will it write normal HTML, or HTML designed to
barf if non-M$ browzers try to parse it? The latter, of course.

Coming Next: Internet Exploder browzer won't mark up pages made with
non-MS tools, or which are hosted on servers which don't run MS-server
software, so you can't look at cat pages any more since our servers use
GnuLinux. Especially not if you're connected over a network which isn't
entirely MS.. which happens to be our network. Oh, and that file you just
spent hours writing Leah, Hugh, Jj... no, you can't write it to a floppy
or your own harddisk, and nor can you even run word, photoslop,
dreamweaver on your win2k3 machine... you have to (pay to) log into a
remote MS server to do that. And your work stays there on MSs server. All
you have on your machine is a database reference to where it is on the MS
.NET system. If MS deems your machine `safe' to log into it.

>Windows is not ideal, but should be supported for these people -- I dont
>think changing a Windows computer to Linux is a supportive thing to do in
>this case. 

This depends what are the aims of the collective, and exactly whom are we
trying to support.

I've made the following arguments before, and they are valid, and it is
obvious that they're not getting through. Or maybe I'm braindamaged and
other people's excellent reasons to maintain MS machines in the IMC lab
are not getting through to me. I can't tell which any more.

Gnu/linux, OS/2, MacOS9, and other OSs are not ideal, either. OTOH
Win-slows, especially its near-future incarnation, is as far from ideal as
I can imagine an OS, if that ideal includes freedom, privacy, security and
autonomy. I consider Windows to have VERY significant, serious problems
associated with using it, and the most significant problems are
surprisingly not in the hardware or software - they are in the changes
made to people's meatware - their understanding of what a computer is,
what it does, what it can or should do for them and under whose control it
remains. That damage in people's heads will be there for decades.

Put aside for a moment the money people usually pay to buy a box, buy the
Win9x software and pay someone to install it... that is slight, really,
compared to the cost of the hundreds of hours they invest in coming to
grips with the interface, learning where everything is in the filesystem,
and learning the apps. Once they learn to use Windows and the apps which
run under it, they have made a substantial investment in time, effort and
understanding. People get emotionally attached to tools they know, it's
natural.

The REALLY BIG cost comes later, when they discover what they have learned
already is made useless with the latest upgrade, and their computer is
actually not under their own control any longer, and won't do what they
want it to do any more.... what do to? Will they stay with what they know?
Or make a painful change? Usually not the latter.

Microsoft understands the psychology of human dependancy as any good
dictatorship must. People depend on Microsoft's OS and compatible apps,
and this dependancy is encouraged by the corporation since it's part of
what enables them to keep screwing money out of their customers. This
dependancy is what makes users (or is that, use-ees?) stay in what I view
as a fundamentally abusive relationship, where M$ abuses the user for
years in a variety of ways. Longtime Winbloze users are scared to get out
'cos of the cost of abandoning all that experience with Winbloat, and 'cos
of the percieved trauma of learning a new OS; so they remain with what
they know, because they've invested a lot of time, effort, and money in
learning how to drive the Windows GUI and apps... this investment keeps
them there, even if it means they get ripped off for more money, their
software starts spying on them or censoring them, or displaying
unsolicited advertising, or everything they type becomes the property of
MS, and so on. 

The parallels to the rationalisations of a person with an abusive partner
are absolutely exact: It's ok if I get beaten up 'cos <excuse>, it's OK if
they read my mail 'cos <excuse>, I can't leave because <excuse>, they
won't let me do x,y,z and that's ok because <excuse>, I deserve it. I will
keep using this app even though it won't save in the format I want because
<excuse>; I will tolerate not being able to copy this file because
<excuse>; It doesn't matter if five years work is rendered unreadable
during the next upgrade because <excuse>, there's no alternative.

>If every time a Windows box breaks somebody converts it to Linux then we
>would have no Windows boxes very soon.

... and we will have more Gnu/linux boxes very soon! Great!

If every time a Windows box breaks, nobody does anything to it, then we
would have no Windows boxes very soon, too.

Good. Good, for all sorts of reasons. Spare parts for GNU/linux boxes 8-)

But why let the box lie idle? Why NOT put GNU/linux on it? Why let
Winbloze stay there, on OUR boxes? 

Surely not to let the victims remain vulnerable to further screwing-over
by M$? That's exactly what we're encouraging them to be, by making the 
M$ platform available.

We had a discussion about warez a month or two ago, and came to a
conclusion that supporting warez just makes it easier for people to delay
making their transition to free software, and that's why we're not in
support of hosting it.

Has Microsoft-ware earned the right to be on our machines?

Here's one of several problems with doing maint on the existing windows
boxes (I have heard arguments that everything will be cool if we just
maintain the existing Winbloat machines). If every time a windows box
breaks, and it is co-erced into being a functioning windows box again, a
donation is been made to Microsoft by CAT. Parts, time and effort which
could have been directed to the free software effort, by providing
hardware to run GNU/linux on, have been subverted and diverted to
maintaining the MS software control-freak empire... and is one less box
with gnu/linux on it.

Maintaining windows boxes = doing work for Microsoft for free.  

Why make anonymous, unrecognised but very real donations of cash
equivalent parts and skilled labour to Microsoft when you can install a
GNU/linux OS instead? For the same reasons you don't send Microsoft fifty
dollar notes in the mail. 

Windows boxes don't want to run the code YOU write, either, andy. M$
treats coders and developers like dogshit. So for that matter does Apple,
users of which are also likely to find themselves frozen out in the near
future.

>Personally I am happy to help maintain Windows boxes at Turella - I dont
>expect everybody to be ready to use Linux. By all means source and make a
>new Linux box - My opinion is that we maintain the level of Windows we
>have now.

I am interested to see, in the light of the aforementioned comments I've
made, how you justify this. The benefits of your skill set, especially is
better allocated to someone other than MS, in my view.

I do not expect everyone to learn to use Gnu\Linux, but I DO expect that
everybody at CAT understands, or is MADE to understand, the true cost
structure and penalties and restrictions consequent to having MS on the
machines on the IMC premises. Not just the cost in maintenance, but also
the cost in lost educational investment, continued dependancy and lessened
autonomy.


Tired.
-------

When I acquire faster motherboards for cat (thanks, particularly, for
several of these, from Diode of Cave Clan), or assess donated chassis, and
install an OS onto them, I do not put Microsloth on them. However, I have
noticed some of the donated mobos have found their way into windows boxes,
and I don't complain about that since these boxes still do useful things
for people, which is probably an OK criterion on which to judge their
suitability to be in the 'lab. I also don't complain about it, since I AM
VERY TIRED OF HEARING CLAIMS THAT PEOPLE'S DEPENDANCY ON MS PRODUCTS IS
GOOD REASON TO KEEP WINBOXES AVAILABLE every time one of these infernal,
pestilential windows boxes is converted, lost, whatever. It's easier to
just feed the dependancy, provide the usual drugs uh, M$ software, and
silently watch as I let CAT members choose to help Microsoft to fuck them
over in the long term. It isn't like they weren't warned, but there's no
satisfaction telling someone with their legs blown off that you warned
them not to walk into the minefield. So I rant, now, when I think it might
help.

It's OK for the win-dependants to voice these complaints at CAT since
we're here to listen to that stuff, it's in the charter to pay attention
to these difficulties. We have a duty to listen to them. They also have a
duty to listen to the warnings about their chosen course of action. So at
CAT the windows dependeez can expect to get some support from non-windoze
advocates at CAT for humanitarian reasons. Tried being a gnu/linux user at
a workplace, a university, or a net cafe lately? Out there in
saturated-with-Windows'n'Macs land, if you're not a windows user, you
might as well be a two-headed whacko from Neptune... windows admins won't
even suggest you go build your own GNU/linux box, and most of them don't
know what a command line looks like nowadays. The M$ monoculture is
exclusive, not inclusive. It is that way by design. M$ demands corporate
brand-loyalty and codifies the software to ensure it gets it.

Gnu/linux users don't get support from the denizens of the the Psychosoft
part of the world; since tit-for-tat is the most sensible long-term
game-theoretical strategy, it implies a question: if windows people can't,
won't or aren't allowed to help anyone else, why should anyone else help
them? This is microsoft's divide-and-conquer strategy at work. All we can
do is ask windozians to defect to the free world and cry when they don't.


Choices. 
---------- 

I made the choice to move to Gnu/linux in about Nov 1995. It wasn't easy.
I thought kernels had something to do with fried chicken, and had no clue
what it meant on the slackware distro CD set about compiling kernels,
which I had to do, and at which I failed often. It was extremely
frustrating. Once I got it going I knew it was better than MS-DOG 6.2.  
If gnu/linux wasn't rock-solid stable i'd have crashed every install I've
touched.

I migrated from MS-dog to gnu-linux, at TEXT level 'cos I had no idea what
to do with the GUI. 

The distros have improved a lot since I first tried to make the move to
gnu/linux. Getting to grips with an OS is NOT easy, but getting to grips
with current distros of gnu/linux is easier than getting to grips with
Winblows if you've never used either. Making the transition from m$ to
gnu/linux is not easy. I still struggle. It's hard but not deliberately
obstructed.

Getting and keeping freedom is NEVER easy.

If we choose to make MS remain available in the 'lab then we choose to let
the problem of MS dependancy remain and probably grow. It will be
impossibly difficult if M$ turn the screws hard enough, and they give
every indication of trying to turn the screws as hard as they can.

Micro$oft: what river do you want us to sell you down today?

>cheers
>andy

On Thu, 10 Apr 2003, John August wrote:

> Please note: this list is archived and searchable via the web.
> 
> As you walk in the main door, there's a bank of computers on the left,
> with the one on the furthest left a mac, and the middle three Linux
> boxes. The one on the furthest right is a misbehaving Windows box,
> which I plan to convert to Linux on Sunday.  I think that spot used to
> be taken up by a Linux box, anyway; 

The gnu/linux box which was on that part of the desk was cannibalised
(onya Sonya) to make a replacement for diesel (our DSL router). It was
then replaced with a puke98 box, which I loaned to the Mekanarchy crew
since _their_ win98 box blew its brains out. Mekanarchy are very attached
to that loaned box, by the way, I'd not expect it back for any reason
other than it breaks, but it eventually will, it's win98 after all.

The machine in question about which JA is speaking happens to be Jj's
donated pentium2. When he donated it he mentioned it was flakey. I
stripped it down, cleaned it, rebuilt it, and swapped its harddisk out,
substituting a smaller one we happened to have around, and tried to
install debian on it; that harddisk was flakey though (we have many flakey
harddisks around here just at the moment). So I slapped Jj's original
harddisk back in there, which happens to have Puke98 on it.

When that aforementioned sin98 box went to Mekanarchy, I rolled Jj's box
out with sin98 on it, since that was what was on Jj's donated harddisk (I
wonder what else we could do with that big donated harddisk... weren't we
scrabblin' around for a big IDE disk for the server the other day?). I
rolled it out like that because I wanted to quickly fill that empty space
in the bench with a functional machine. By leaving that OS on there, I
thereby converted that maintenance time/effort into a donation to
Micro$oft. Which might make the windows users happy 8-)

I knew that, if we needed gnu/linux on it, we could just throw a knoppix
CD in the drive and boot it up. Maybe JA should try that. It worked for
me. The machine will return to the dark side of the force if rebooted
without the cdrom.


> and there'll still be three windows boxes.
> 
> I trust there's no problems here.

...only that people become attached to their shackles, and want me to help
them stay in them. A padded cell is quiet and comfortable, but it's still
gaol.
 
> Cheers,
> John August


Cheeries...
<predator>
