Thoughts: IGD, 
version2

0) Primary competitor = wire. 
Wire is cheap and super-reliable, dumb as a bag of hammers, nuisance to
install (roof, floor, etc) RFI prone, easy to tap, leaks EM if not
shielded.

1) security ==> sniffing, unauthorised authentication 
get around with PKI; maybe keys in flash, or PROM, or Dallas MAC-chip?
Also: minimum adequate signal from DSA (dyn. signal. attenuation) will
keep field to a minimum.

But: how prevent unknown, neighbours client devices then securely
authenticating to your GW?

Need DIP switch settings (user-ugly - can we avoid them?) 
OR 
New client devices can only authenticate to the gateway when a
"auth" button on _both_ of them has been pressed. NOT a good idea to do
this automatically on power-up, since everything will authenticate to
everything within range (eg: neighbors boxes).
OR
Have female socket on IGD, male socket on client, plug in to auth.



2) range limits / crosstalk.
Do we have a model of typical required range?
Does the average customer have distance requirement of 30m? What about
offices? Home model, office model with different Tx power and Rx
sensitivities? Higher power out-> better range, fewer errors but more
crosstalk for other customers if channel slices are saturated. Lower power
out -> less range, more errors, but less Tx-power shouting-matches between
devices, and putatively better security. 

Hence implement DSA (dynamic signal attenuation) : devices only Tx
with power adequate for their immediate network (enough power that errors
at OSI layer 1 and 2 will be below some tolerable threshold), Tx power
controlled in software in real time. Won't solve channel saturation
problems, but will minimise likelihood that devices next door to each
other will crosstalk. Facility to do this exists in Hermes chips. No
solution to prolonged, high-power dumb noise (microwave ovens).

3) mains power out ==> no working phones
a) onboard power supply (short term) solves this 
b) an existing normal phone can remain connected to PSTN with real
twisted-pair copper anyway - as many can be expected to do.

Device will need Austel certification, hence should comply with spec.

4) interfere with DSL?
No. Since GW works in voice spectum, use 2 RJ11's and hardwire feed thru.
DSL modem will still see real copper. Pick off the freq required with
bandpass filter or other method - rather like existing modems. 

5) interference with pair-gains systems
No. The GW will not know or care about what the demultiplexer feeds down 
the copper pair. Could be a source of data-user customer unhappiness but
this is Telstra's fault, not the GW's.

6) lightning protection intrinsic to these items - good

7) any upgrade path to different freqs (10GHz?) : 
would require  significant componentry changes, PCB layout mods
so: RF Tx/Rx stage should be modular?

Protoyping; use commodity parts. 
Open source code (some tricky mods req'd).
I can use a soldering iron 8-)
