The Impact of Genetic engineering on the human race.
By Joshua Chhay

Genetic modification enables science to intervene in the process of nature.  
Science argues that such outcomes are welcomed, but there is a need to 
consider all the consequences including possible negative outcomes of this 
new technology. Recently developed techniques in genetics makes it likely 
that science will soon have the capacity to introduce deliberate genetic 
changes into human embryos, changes which will be inherited by the 
offspring.  This possibility is called germline engineering. This technology 
raises contentious issues of cloning and the creation of 'Designer Babies.' 
There is also the therapeutic correction of inherited possible genetic 
mistakes; in addition through the process of genetic profiling there exists 
the possibilities of the removal of genetically influenced diseases such as 
cancers.  There is also research being done to investigate a role for 
genetic engineering in the areas of Alzheimer's disease, onset of Aids, 
diabetes and heart disease.

	The decoding of the human genome in June 1999 gives scientists many 
opportunities.  This allows scientist to have a database of information to 
study human genes and to be able to genetically profile genetic diseases.  
In June, the genetic code's 'rough draft' signalled that researchers had 
obtained 90 percent of the code. In December 1999, the 56- Mb sequence of 
the human chromosome 22 was declared essentially complete. (Human Genome 
Project FAQs, Human Genome News, . The variation between each person's 
genome is 0.1. (New Scientist: Close Cousins: 4/11/00:43).  This small 
difference makes some people more prone to cancer, diabetes and haemophilia 
and heart disease.  Genetically, humans are 99.9 per cent identical.  If one 
were to compare a human's genetic structure to chimpanzees; there is greater 
variation in chimpanzees. Dr Eric Lander, director of the Whitehead 
Institute Center for Genome Research in Cambridge, Massachusetts states;'The 
same gene in any two chimpanzees can show up to five-fold more variation 
than two in humans.' (New Scientist: Enigma Variations: 4/11/00:35). 
Scientists are hoping with the lack of genetic diversity in humans the 
detection of cancers and other diseases might be feasible.   Scientist are 
investigating with this new technology to decipher the human genetic code 
and discover what each function does.  This code is in 4 letters- the 
nucleotide bases of adenine (A), guanine (G), and cytosine (C) and thymine 
(T), which is a set of code of 3.1 billion letters.  There are 23 
chromosomes.  Humans duplicate 23 of them - one copy from each parent- plus 
two sex chromosomes.  Girls inherit an X chromosome from each parent, where 
boys receive an X from their mother and Y from their father. Mitrodchandia, 
a cell originally involved in energy metabolism is inherited from the 
mother's side only.

	The impact of this discovery allows scientists to research single 
nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP)'s which are tiny genetic variations.  This 
may help researchers discover which parts of a person's genome code is 
responsible for green eyes, increased risk of diabetes, cancer or heart 
disease.  These variants are called SNPs.  This can also reveal the workings 
of genes already implicated in disease.  SNPs are the parts on the 
chromosomes where variations commonly occur and they account for most of the 
genetic differences between people.  At these spots, a person's genome may 
read 'AAGGCTAA" while some one else's may read 'ATGGCTAA'- a thymine 
nucleotide (T) has taken place of adenine (A).  With the first rough draft 
of the human genome mapped out, geneticists are now starting to add fine 
detail, including the position of some 3 to 10 million SNPs.  Although it is 
not yet clear that SNPs help cause disease, gene hunters are hoping to be 
able to use them as genetic signposts to conduct mass screening of human 
genomes for the genetic combinations that cause disease.  Geneticists are 
hoping doctors could scan a patient's genome to see if he or she carries the 
pattern of SNPs associated with a heightened disease risk and then be able 
to diagnose patients more accurately with this information. (Glover:456).

Depending on 'increased risk' theory geneticists' believe every person's 
SNP's will be able to pinpoint a person's risk of dying from many common 
diseases and be able to develop drugs to reduce them. This is called genetic 
profiling.  Dr. Stratton at the Cancer Genome Project at Sanger Centre in 
Cambridge, states; 'In a cancer- causing gene called 'RAS'; the genetic code 
is only altered at a single DNA base.  If the same gene mutated 100 times in 
100 different cancers, then that is a hint it is causative.  Cancers' most 
deadly attribute is metastasis.  Metastasis is controlled by other genes, 
encoding proteins called adherims.  This happens when cells from the 
original tumor invade other parts of the body. The big difference that 
genomics will make to fight cancer is specificity.  Currently cancer drugs 
kills many healthy cells as well cancerous ones.  In the future perhaps a 
doctor will take a little biopsy from a tumour, do a molecular or genomic 
profiling if the profile indicates that.  The tumor could be 61/3-B then the 
chemist could get a drug specifically for that tumour. (New Scientist: Know 
your enemy: 4/11/00:50).  One example of this approach is a small molecule 
called STI-571.  It is a drug for a chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML), a blood 
cancer caused when part of chromosome 9 swaps with part of chromosome 22 in 
a white blood cell, creating a new structure called "Phildadelpia 
chromosome''.  Cytologists looking from microscopes at the cancerous cells 
discovered the abnormality back in the 1960's, but it wasn't until the late 
1990s that geneticists realised that Philadelphia chromosomes makes cells 
cancerous because the mutation it creates a new, active gene.   This gene 
encodes an enzyme that makes cells grow exponentially.  Scientists at 
Novartis Pharma in Basle designed a chemical to block the action of the 
aberrant enzyme. Cells then carrying the mutation then are eliminated from 
the blood. The drug targets only the cells that carry the translocation.  
This would bring a new quality of therapy.  Sin the human genome sequence; 
the drug discovery process that has taken nearly forty years for CML will be 
much accelerated.

The impact of researchers identifying these genes, helps diagnosed people 
predispose to genetically inherited disease.   This finding could lead to 
designing preventative drugs that stop tumours before they strike. 
Oncologist Kenneth Kinzler at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore and his 
colleagues are working on blocking colon cancer in mice to be bred to be 
susceptible to the disease. By using a combination of drugs to attack two of 
the pathways leading to cancer in mice, researcher reduced the tumour 
development by 95 per cent, and half the mice developed no tumours at all. 
(Kornberg:367) However, Dr Bruce Ponder, oncologist at Cambridge University 
states that it would take 10-15 years and $100 million to turn it into an 
anti cancer drug. (New Scientist: Know your enemy: 4/11/00:50). The tracking 
down the single genes that cause the rarer disease, like Huntington's, or 
trigger a tiny proportion of the more common diseases like BRCA1 and breast 
cancer, is simpler to decode. Genetics look at families with the disease and 
worked out which characteristic pieces of genetic sequence-, which are 
'markers', occurred in family members with the disease. Using such linkage 
analysis, researches could assess the sections of the genome that was 
cancerous.

Stephen O'Brien's lab at the National Cancer Institute near Washington DC 
has amassed gene data on some 10,000 people at risk of HIV infection.  Of 
those who have contracted HIV, some have developed AIDS more rapidly than 
others. This lead Dr.O'Briens lab to look at eight genes that code for 
proteins affected by HIV, such as CCR2, a cell receptor that the virus uses 
to break into immune cells. (New Scientist: Enigma Variations 4/11/00:35). 
This gene targeting was effective.  The NCI team describes eight SNPs within 
the genes.  Some, including a CCR2 SNP, are linked to a delay in the onset 
of AIDS; others to more rapid disease progression.  Those finding raise the 
possibility that SNPs may be used in the future to more closely tailor a 
patient's drug therapy to their genetic makeup.

	In a separate study (Nature Genetics, vol 26, p 76), David Altshuler of the 
Whitehead Institute Center for Genome Research in Cambridge, Masschusetts, 
and his colleagues, found that people carrying an SNP in a gene called 
PPAR-gamma face a 25 percent higher risk of getting diabetes.  Other 
researchers are exploring variations in genes that affect blood clotting, 
heart disease autoimmune disorders.  Alzheimer's is one of the few complex 
diseases in which a major susceptibility gene has been analysed.  One gene, 
ApoE, comes in three varieties: Apo E2, Apo E3 and Apo E4.  People with the 
Apo E4 version of the gene are most likely to develop Alzheimer's, while 
those with Apo E2 are least likely who have Apo E3 seem to have intermediate 
disease risk.  (Glover: 463)  It currently costs $100, 00 to $200,000 to 
scan the genome of a single person.  Dr Allen Roses, director of genetics at 
Glaxo Wellcome in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, states this.  Many 
scientists expect SNP costs to be reduced as with other gene sequencing 
technologies.  Currently, SNP analyses are primarily being used to 
streamline routine linkage analysis, or to research how a gene that is 
already implicated in a disease changes.  This will help scientist invent 
new cancer drugs, which will target cancers specifically.  The impact of 
this research will improve the treatment of cancer considerably.

	The impact of  'designer' babies on the human race could be negative. 
Although the idea of babies being not just healthy, but biologically immune 
to a wide range of disease or deliberately imbued with other attributes 
could be seen as positive. However, one possible danger of genetic 
modification is that it is 'market-driven'.  Parents who are perhaps 
interested in a child's education are most likely willing to pay for private 
schooling and could perhaps be enticed by the possible subjective advantages 
of the 'designer baby' option. Intelligence acquired by inheritance and 
knowledge acquired by education is closely connected.  (Facts on designer 
babies) Possible text reference.

Germline engineering and gene therapies both have their uses in medicine.  
Gene therapy is conducted with a living adult and can be used to cure 
genetic disorders ie. Alzihemlers, leukemia and breast cancer.  Scientists 
in the Brimingham Institute for Cancer Studies have considerable expertise 
in the various area of gene therapy. One group part of an international 
collaboration, doing world-leading research on an essential aspect of gene 
therapy which is how to deliver the treatment specifically to cancer cells, 
and not to the rest of the body. The work involves wrapping the genes in a 
synthetic coat, which protects them in the bloodstream, which carries a 
targeting signal for delivery to the cancer cells. (Brinmingham- CRC 
Institute for Cancer Studies, Facts Questions Answers, 
http://www.crc.org.uk/about/Aboutcan_us_6_1.html).  However, Gene therapy is 
not effective as perhaps germline engineering could be.  The problem is 
getting new genes into enough cells of the body.  Germline modification 
which is the altering of sperm or egg to effect changes that can be passed 
form one generation to another, could be more effective. However the problem 
is Germline modification on animals has produced many 'accidents'.  From 
this fact one could ascertain there could be the same problems with humans.  
Which leads to the impact of IVF and cloning. ( Problem with IVF,  Text 
references.) Ie. Non motile sperm from man, used to create IVF fertilized 
egg.  Failure to conceive is a quality- control measure in animals; prevents 
them from passing on reproductive inadequacies.

Cloning, another field of genetic engineering raises issues of ethics. 
Cloning humans is theoretically possible.  This does occurs naturally in 
homozygous twins. However to recreate this in laboratory situation it is 
inefficient and risky. For an IVF baby to be born which is not a clone. It 
reportedly took 104 attempts before the first IVF baby, Louise brown to be 
born: Cloning Dolly took more that twice that. During a 4-year research 
study on cloning animals, Dr. Willmut, Director of cloning research at 
Southern Cross Genetics, states 98% of embryos never implant or die off 
during gestation or soon after the birth.  Animals that survive can be 
nearly twice as big at birth, or have extra-large organs, heart trouble or 
poor immune systems. Wilmut believes 'it is almost a certainty' that cloned 
human children would be born with similar problems.  He believes most of 
these children would die very prematurely.  (Time: 17/2/00:46)  However, if 
cloning were to become widespread it would lower the diversity of humans, 
providing a less evolved target for disease.  There are issues to do with 
tissue cloning (for reproduction of ones own organs) from stem cells, not 
least of which is the impact of increasing numbers of very long lived 
humans, their lives prolonged with new copies of their own organisms, on 
society and the environment.

The impact of possible cloning humans is questionable.  It is an inefficient 
and risky process and the positive reasons for it are largely subjective. 
ie. Cloning a dead child or a loved one that has passed away, or helping 
infertile couples conceive. Dr. Wilmut believes that cloned children would 
be born with similar maladies.  Cloned children would probably die very 
prematurely.  In trying to make a copy of a child who have died tragically, 
one of the mostly likely outcomes is another dead child.  There are 
scientist however who are working on the Clonaid project by the Raelian  
sect. This sect is committed to clone the cells of a dead 10-month-old boy 
whose parents hope will be reborn.  The Raelians say they have resources to 
carry a cloned baby to term. This includes 50 women to act surrogates to 
carry a carry a baby to term.  For cloning to work doctors need to harvest 
up to 15 eggs each from up to 40 donors who have been injected with 
fertility drugs. About 400 eggs are produced. The nucleus of each egg is 
sucked with a fine needle.  Then the DNA-free eggs and donor cells are 
placed next to one another and electrified, which causes them to fuse.  Some 
of the rebuilt eggs divide to form embryos.  Because embryos often fail to 
implant, each surrogate mother gets several at once.  Even so, up to 50 
surrogates could be needed (not necessarily all at once) to ensure nine or 
10 pregnancies.  Of these, most will terminate early by miscarriage or by 
abortion when abnormalities are found.  The single viable baby could be 
normal. (Arber: 443). According to cloning expert Dr. Wilmut, Director of 
cloning research at Southern Cross Genetics, states that; producing a single 
viable clone will require many volunteers to donate eggs and carry 
embryos-most of which will have major abnormalities and never come to term. 
The clones that do survive could suffer more subtle problems that might not 
show up until well after birth ie. Being nearly twice as big after birth, or 
have extra large organs or poor immune systems. (Altshuler:178)


Scientist in the field promotes the positive outcome of genetic engineering 
on the human race and these have to acknowledged such as improvement in the 
treatments of cancer, Alzheimer's disease, onset of Aids, diabetes and heart 
disease done through the process of genetic profiling. However there are 
still negative consequences of this new technology, which require 
consideration and further scientific investigation such as cloning and 
'Designer babies'.



