From guyd@zip.com.au Thu Dec 13 23:37:59 2001
Date: Thu, 13 Dec 2001 17:05:04 +1100
From: Guy Dunphy <guyd@zip.com.au>
To: predator@cat.org.au
Subject: Silly me

Something I wrote a couple of days ago. Please cast ye olde
geologist's eye over it, and tear apart.



From: guyd@zip.com.au (Guy Dunphy)
Newsgroups: alt.life-mars
Subject: Where the Water Went
Date: Tue, 11 Dec 2001 05:44:11 GMT
Organization: Posted via Supernews, http://www.supernews.com
Lines: 166

Where the Martian Water Went               GuyD 11/12/01

An article in the Sydney Morning Herald, 11/12/01, page 3,
titled: 'Hope for the world-weary: Mars travel by 2016'.
One quote from the article:
>"We know [Mars] had a body of water that basically covered
>the whole northern hemisphere of the planet." Mr Lavery said.
>"We want to know where that water went, to understand if there
>are any parallels between that and the ancient history of Mars."

This prompted me to give the matter a few moments thought,
and resulted in this little essay.
My appologies to geologists, and especially to those who
study the geology of Mars. I expect this is a stupid idea,
just the sort of dumb-arsed thing an electronics engineer
(me) would be expected to say about rocks. Only an idle
moment's speculation, not meant to be a serious suggestion.


I wondered:
Does Mars still have a liquid magma core, or has it cooled
enough for all (or significant portions) of its interior to
solidify?
I seem to recall reading somewhere that Mars is thought to
be a tectonicly dead planet, ie there is no longer any plate
movement going on. Presumably, this means the crust is at
least much thicker than Earths, or there is no active molten
core left at all. Something about Mars lacking sufficient
radioactives to maintain core heating?

This is significant to the 'whither the water' question,
because if the planet has predominantly solidified, rather
than remaining a thin solid crust on a liquid core, like
Earth, then it is obvious where the water has gone.

Consider what happens when glass is 'tempered', ie cooled
rapidly from a near molten state. The outside goes solid,
then the zone of solidification progresses inward.
As each volume of glass solidifies, it contracts.
The surfae has no problem contracting - it has space on one
side and can pull away from that. But the inside volumes
are now surrounded by a rigid glass shell. They cannot
contract - without creating cavities that is. And in glass
tempering there are insufficient cavitation nucleation sites,
and the process is too fast for cavities to form in the
highly viscous glass.
So in hardened glass, the inside volume is in 'material tension'
(of quite large magnitude) and the glass surface is under a
resulting longitudinal compression, also of very great magnitude.
Strong enough to resist considerable point impact loading.
But if the surface compression does give way, and a crack
is produced in the surface, the instant it propogates through
to the interior zone of tension, the whole body of tempered
glass is doomed. The crack branches and propogates through
all of the glass, supplying the 'cavities' the glass needs
to relieve its internal stress. The glass explodes into a
shower of small pieces, each one with insufficient remaining
internal stress to produce further internal fracturing.

Now, a planet, in its 'Earthlike' ie mostly molten state,
is like a body of glass. If cooling and solidification progresses
inwards from the surface, at some point the solid crustal layer
will have become sufficiently thick to resist all further
'wrinkling' effects that allow the crust to contract to
match the shrinking volume of the internal mass as it cools.
Unlike hardening glass though, there will be plenty of
opportunities for internal cavities to open, to relieve the
accumulating stresses. No shortage of either time, or sources
of cavitation. There will be accumulating gasses, able to form
'bubbles' within the volume tension areas below the rigid crust.
There will be local stress zones and fractures in the crust,
able to propogate down into the more-tensioned deeper areas.
Keeping in mind, that at the depths below the surface that
these effects will be occuring 'tension' is a relative term,
and more likely to mean 'locally reduced pressure'. Areas into
which mobile substances, such as gasses and liquids from nearby
regions still under greater compressive forces, could migrate.

Now, supposing that a pathway developed between some body of
surface water, and a deep zone of relative 'tension'. In this
case, 'tension' would mean any pressure less than the natural
pressure of water at that depth, give a head of water reaching
to the surface. Inevitably, the surface water would infiltrate
the deep zone, expanding it until the residual tension in
surrounding rocks equalled the available head of water.

Also note that the temperature to which the deep zone of rock
would have to 'cool' before water could infiltrate, would still
be quite high, given that the boiling point of water rises with
the pressure. And here we are talking about hundreds, even
thousands of kilometers of depth, not just hundreds of meters.

How much volume would be required, to make up for the thermal
shrinkage of the core of a planet the size of Mars, assuming
some depth of hardened crust that might be structurally stable
against further contraction under its own weight?
We should allow for some 'mobile' fluid that could infiltrate
at least some of the cavities forming below the rigid crust, at
least in early stages of the 'seperation' of the rigid crust
from the still shrinking core. This fluid would provide some
support for the overhead 'arch' of stony crust, and reduce the
mechanical strength that would be required of the crust, to
resist simple collapse into a rubble pile.

That thought suggests yet another possibility - that the solid
crust has in fact converted into a 'rubble pile', and in that
form is able to shrink to match the contraction of the core.
But this implies that there would still be vast volumes of space
beneath the surface, just distributed as a massive network of
small cavities and fractures between the 'rubble'.
Again, this might well have more than enough volume to have
swallowed the Martian oceans.
Possibly a great deal of the atmosphere also, depending on the
ability of the subsurface materials to sustain cavities filled
only with gas, not liquid, against the compressive forces of
Martian gravity. Which is only, what, one third of Earth's?

In any case, the water had to get from the surface, down to
the deep cavities. Perhaps it merely seeped down over millenia,
vanishing with barely a whimper.
Or perhaps, rather more dramaticly, there was at least some
sizable body of surface water left, at a point when some channel
developed to an internal area of stress sufficiently extensive
to drain the lot. That would lead to an event rather more
spectacular than the shattering of hardened glass, the removal
of a bath plug, or that amusing case in the USA where a drilling
rig accidentally connected a lake with a very extensive saltmine
beneath it. The entire lake (and the drill rig) vanished.
The Martian gurgler would have been on a rather larger scale.

Possibly, such an event might have left some evidence on the
surface of its occurence. Something like a rather deep, eroded
looking hole or pit. Not necessarily round - it might have
eroded along some preexisting faultline perhaps. 
You don't suppose... that bloody great canyon, whats it called?

Maybe, if there were other bodies of open water on the surface,
seperated from the 'sinkhole', then the planet's surface water
might have taken some time to all drain away. Only that which
fell in the catchment area of the sinkhole as rain would be
permanently lost to the surface. If rain was infrequent, this
could take quite a while. Also, with the loss of surface water,
and maybe atmosphere, the temperature would fall and remaining
surface water would freeze. From then on, water loss to the
sinkhole (or holes) would occur only during rare thaws, or via
sublimation and frosts.

One other interesting consequence of this scenario, is that there
might remain areas, around the deep 'watertable', where temperatures
and pressures suitable to maintain liquid water, and a gaseous
atmosphere supportive of life, might exist. Though such a zone
could have little in the way of thermodynamic gradients vital for
the operation of higher chemical metabolisms. The only heat flow
would be the slow leakage of remaining core heat upwards to the
surface. There might be concentrations though, in forms similar
to Earth's deep ocean 'smokers'.

So perhaps, deep within the Red Planet, we may one day find the
Martians: clams, worms, crustaceans, and Martian muscles?


Guy Dunphy
guyd<an at sign thingie>zip.com.au



------------------------------------------------------------
X-overseer: watcher34.bbone.nwo.gov.au
Tagline censored. Reason: #621 Express un-American sentiment
Potential terrorist sympathies logged : carnivore.fbi.gov
User [  guyd ] accumulated loyalty violations count : 53
------------------------------------------------------------
