File: getting_it.txt
Cont: Pred's friendly metastasis. Reality nibbles gently. What the fuck'll I do now?


I can't remember what it was which provoked this memory. In 1993 I was doing the
practical component of the TAFE explosives course. This was where I held my
first old, sweaty (the nitroglycerin had started to sweat its way out of the
cartridge), stick of AN60 gelignite, which we were gonna condemn to death by
laying it down in the quarry and torching it in puddle of diesel. A long way
away from where we would observe it.

It's been a long time since I've had that creeping, prickly feeling of fear that
accompanied the realisation that the nitroglycerin was migrating across the skin
of my fingers and I'd have a fucker of a headache later, since nitro' is a
potent vasodilator as well as a vicious explosive. It's the cold grey feeling of
discovering you're being infiltrated by something malevolent, but are powerless
to prevent it. Dropping old AN60 from any height is a good way to become dead
fast. I couldn't let it go in any manner other than was required by the disposal
protocol. I could feel the explosive oil on my fingertips. Yes, I did indeed get
a fucker of a headache later. I have never handled NG since, preferring the
nitrated pentaerythritols and the salami-like sausages, thick as your arm, of 3151
PowerGel.

Whatever it was, it came to me while I was headding up to the doctor's office
via the elevator. Maybe the hydraulic oil of the elevator and the NG smell the
same.

The redheaded flautist, who kindly donated me a pair of khaki pants before
departing for the apple isle (these were the genuine ADI item, too, not some imitation
low-durability crap from a chinese sweatshop), has me under a momentary vow of
monogamy. I mentioned to her after saying I'd cop this for about a month at
most, that since my time is short and I'm grabbing most things offered to me,
that if any carnal offers came up in her absence I'd probably say yes. She's
sounding resigned to my stance, saying unconvincedly that I should just do what
I have to do, but I said that while we're in the loop, she can negotiate with me
about what else we get up to. She told me to just do what I had to do and tell
her a story when she came back. Wow. This is the same person who without a
moment's thought just walked into the geek room and offered to shag me a few
weeks ago. And we still haven't, though we've been pretty close. I think she's
right - it's gone beyond simply fucking, we're getting to know each other so
it's no longer the straight proteinaceous exchange one can get away with under
the blanket of anonymity which comes from barely knowing each other. 

I figure we've got the pathogens and pregnancy aspects under control, so it
comes down to how vulnerable her ego is to the percieved threat of anyone else
who shags me, whom she would consider as a superior or competitor, or the
assumption that I would, or could, (I'll phrase this indelicately for maximum
effect) fuck her cheaply and forget her.  

I dropped her at the airport and rode to the doctor's surgery in Kogarah. I
noticed later her blood on the front of the khakis (and they're not AusCam so
the blood contrasted darkly against the green drill fabric) but ah, there was
nothing else to wear. So did the doctors. I would expect they'd have an eye for
blood. 

I had a chat to Aslan _and_ Cozzi, the dudes who spent a few hours playing about
in my guts back in Nov. Cozzi, who resected my cancerous chunk o' lymph nodality
out of my retroperitoneal area, had a look at the scar, which has healed well.
If I have to complain, it could only be because the scar's fucked up my ol' six
pack, even though I never did any work to obtain either of them. I asked 'em
about the homicidal maniac incubating itself in my neck. They're gonna pass the
job to his mate at Randwick and he will probaby opt to chop it out. I am glad I
can rely on my previous tactical slash merchants to be of the opinion that we
should slash first, ask questions later. Okay okay, de Sousa reckons I'm fucked
anyhow and I mostly agree with him, but for reasons mainly related to the need
to support the idea that I've got some sort of a chance (and that I want a scar
I can wear in public for maximum gratuitous egotistical street cred), I'm not
going down without a fight. Finally, someone has the clue. So I see the
professorial dude in Randwick on the 19th. Arrr... precious days elapse, during
which time Bill feeds on my ichor, preparing to launch cytological tentacles
into the important adjacent infrastructure which keeps me alive... little things
like oh, you know, my carotid fuckin' artery. I told 'em I'd been reading the
scientific literature and that it was my opinion that the more I read about this
creeping doom the less I liked it, and frankly the odds sucked. They said there
wasn't much they could do about that. Looks like medicine is still DIY to some
extent these days. 

So I'm also off to see Fluhrer on the 13th about some lipopolysaccharides from strep
pyrogenes and oh, what was the other one.. serratia marcassens. If we fail to
provoke massive immune response to this thing and its invisible buddies by
stuffing a few hundred nanograms of immunogenic crap into it, we'll chop it out
afterwards. 



It's been a good week for scavenging, but it usually is in the couple of weeks
after Christmasturbation, since all the perfectly good old stuff gets tossed to
make way for more perfectly good new stuff.

I hauled an _astounding_ bit of stereo hardware out of a dumpster last week,
while bicycling breathlessly back from the paint shop adjacent to where I went
to school as a little kiddie in the mid-late 1970s. It's a serious weapon from
Sony, will drive 160 watts root mean-square into eight ohms, per channel. It has
bass enhancement, surround sound and all that related digital signal processing
accoutrementage of which the Japanese are so enamoured, and which the English
electrical engineers such as NAD have correctly held in contempt from the day
they built their first amp out of thermionic valves nearly a century ago.  I
still haven't figured out how to program the graphic equaliser, and have not
figured out exactly what much of the rest of it even does. It doesn't have a
damned left/right balance control on it, but at least the volume control is a
nice, massy knob with no dead spots. Nonetheless, it is very spacey to listen
to. It drives my dumpster-dived Technics SB1950s with the ... well, noticable
effortless transparency which comes from an amp which is not working very hard
to do what it does. Liquid sound, man! Excellent, and I don't give a fuck what
the snotty audiophile set sez about it. Skinny Puppy's messianic `Warlock'
poignantly flares my nostrils and... I can't quite explain it ... makes the
glands at the back of my jaw ache (listen to everything after four minutes, ten
seconds into the fifth track on the Rabies album, at as much volume as you can
tolerate). I almost have to weep when listening to the rolling, oceanic, bass
tectonics which underpin the Pet Shop Boys' track Jealousy. The savage dog
twitches to it while she sleeps on the carpet. I haven't wired the surround
drivers into it yet. Ahh. Thank you, oh bountiful gods of Dumpster.
 
Along with this came a toolbox with lots of good tools and hardware in it. The
tools came good with a little oil and a rag. Man, I must have found or scavenged
just about every tool in the shed by now... from manual fuel pumps to cathode
ray oscilloscopes.

I mention the paint shop because adjacent to it is the primary school where I
spent the first seven years of my incarceration in the pedagogic monster which
has consumed most of my life. In the corner of the playground where the carpark
of the paint shop abutts, is a large gum tree. I planted it in 1977, at the age
of six, on a day pouring rain, with the then state environment minister, Paul
Landa. He died of cancer (are you bored yet?) a few years later. It was but a
fragile sapling when I packed the earth around its roots with my clean young
childish hands. It's a BIG tree, now, twenty five years later. The only honest
state politician I have ever met, Paul said it would grow to be so, but I guess
he knew he could be sure in his opinion. It makes me smile to see kids eat lunch
under it. 

I am cycling more, and the lungs are obviously awaking from a long slumber. 
Geez, there's so much more traffic these days, and more noticable when I'm not
keeping up with it on the pushie. I got on the scales at the veterinarians and
they said I am captain to 64.65kg of mass. But my memory's odd. I went to use my
TheftPOS card and I remembered the PIN from three years ago, which it duly
rejected. 

I went down to the bicycle shop where I got components for my first bike in the
1980s. It's run by the son of Ron, who used to run it, who was claimed by
mesothelioma some years ago. I'm on the hunt for a suspension seat post now I'm
back on the road.
 
I've also started stability testing of my next bit of computing machinery. It's
a mongrel with a tale worth telling. I dragged the chassis (where oh where do
the side panels always go?) in from the roadside last year. The power supply was
a cat.org.au item but was broken since someone dropped it so hard its circuit
board broke on the mounting lugs - I fixed this, hacked it to be an auto-on
supply, and also soldered in a nice IEC-III noise suppression socket... maybe
I'll put in some MOVs later for spike quenching. I found the cdrom drive on the
roadside too, a couple of years ago. The RAM is cat.org.au's and I'm testing
that too. The Pentium-III CPU came from a mobo felled by errant onboard
electrolytic power capacitor explosion (irremediable, sadly, since the resulting
short blew some of the adjacent regs) and scavenged from NDARC by Jude
Hungerford, who was *sure* it would be useful for something (yep - a CPU is a
Good Thing). 

I had to fling the broken GX-150; the actual motherboard is one from XML, who
said it `had problems', and I figured them out : it was doing segmentation
faults mainly 'cos the jumpering and BIOS settings were changing the core/bus
ratio to something faster than the processor could handle (and it helped to put
a heatsink on the south bridge too) so it'd just seg-fault itself to death a few
minutes after boot. So it's in the other room, doing memory tests, running lots
of concurrent maps of its own process table entries, running a GUI and factoring
huge prime numbers. It's doing about 733MHz, which is a bit sluggard by modern
glitzo standards but is twice as quick as my not-very current Celeron/366
Robo-608. If it's gonna shit itself I'll know by morning. If not, I'll be happy.
I am glad when I live on a planet where usable recyclable computing hardware,
for which free software is also available, adorns the roadsides and junk on the
living room tables of friends.

The motherboard came my way the day after I slept in XML's bed (and we didn't
shag tho we did listen to a lot of Yello which I hadn't heard for 15 years and I
remembered almost all of it, too). Which was after I spent a couple of afternoon
hours in the graveyard behind King St, Newtown under the huge spreadding fig
trees as the sun descended, holding Wolfie in my mosquitophilic arms and failing
to escape the feeling that I was surrounded by a historical example of my next
big change in domicile - holes in the ground with slabs on top.

---

I spent some of today in the back shed with my shirt off, doing the case
metalwork for this Pentium-III machine I'm putting together, which I'm happy
to say spent all night testing itself (a knoppix 2.4.20-xfs kernel, several
instances of top -d0, memtest, a gui, and about thirty factorisations of large
prime numbers - a considerable load average) and didn't skip a beat. I think,
ladeez-an-ginnulmen, we have a winner. The PCI bus works too, which i can't
say was ever the case for the 608.

I love metalwork. I would have elected to do it as a full subject in highschool
but I was considered too bright for that, which strikes me as a decision
diagnostic of shameful disdain for the great engineering arts of metallurgical
cuttin'n'weldin'n'drillin'n'foldin, and I've sure as hell done more useful
things with my limited metalwork skills than I have with anything I ever learned
in, say, higher school certificate Modern History. It's summer and the back shed
(where all the real work happens) is hot and poorly ventilated even with the
door open. 

I did the sheet steel work with aviation cutters and a hacksaw (this was an old
ATX tower cover, so pretty easy to retrofit onto a smaller box). The other case
plate came from the aluminium chassis of an obsoleted 19-inch rackmount Digital
DECserver MX-200 hub from 1992. I hate wasting aluminium sheet so I carved it up
with a jigsaw and a Dremel tool, and now it's the side casing of my next
machine. Also scored some mains noise-suppressors out of the ol' DEC item. Cool.

Cuttin' metal requires manual effort. Sweat poured off me, I stank of burnt
cutting lubricant (stuff you put on the blades to make 'em glide through the cut
metal edges more easily) and that rusty tang from the reaction between sweat and
freshly cut iron filings. The aluminium job was too big for the bench vise so I
cradled it in my lap with my left arm and used my right hand to guide the
jigsaw, which has a customised blade in it which I tooled down with a grinder a
year ago for precisely these sorts of jobs.

Fast work, but hot alloy shavings rained off the smoking, snarlin' blade onto my
belly and thighs but aluminium cools fast (low specific heat) and I knew I
wouldn't be burned. Fuck this new belly button of mine, though. My previous
belly button, protruding slightly as it did, didn't catch metal shavings with
anything like the amazing efficiency of this new one, and the shavings are
sharp, hard to get, and being aluminium won't be persuaded out with a magnet. I
had to get 'em with the long-nose pliers; that didn't work, and I eventually
used a hose. Bugger. If I sound like the sort of person who will find anything
to complain about, it's obviously 'cos you've never had alloy shavings stuck in
your natal scar - they're a fuck of a lot more of a nuisance than generic
bellybutton fluff. 


Normal mundanity - the thing I continue to live for - is biting again. I'm gonna
go back tomorrow and paint the place I was gonna paint in November but couldn't
'cos I got sick. I'm not looking forward to it since my destestable sister has
made the kitchen messy and smelly again. Fuck I hate cigarettes and the
arseholes who smoke them near me. Even her vacuum cleaner's exhaust stinks of
fag ash.


Some dudes I meet are telling me about things I consider to be dodgy cures. The
present one about which I've been zealously enthused to is laetrile, also known
as amygdalin, a cyanogenic glycoside from almonds, which supposedly destroys
cancers. Some people call this stuff vitamin B17, which is just silly since it
sure as hell isn't a B-group vitamin, and as far as I can tell, it's not even an
enzymatic cofactor in mammalian biochemistry. Now, if tumors preferentially
metabolise sugars like glucose (but there's a LOT of dextrosaccharides in
biochemistry... mannose, lactose, fructose, maltose, erythrose, threose,
trehalose, ribose, just to name a few from memory) then that sort of makes
sense, IF laetrile is in fact metabolised by these tumor cells - laetrile is a
di-mannose, one with a nitrile group on it. But it immediately occurs to me that
eating this stuff is just gonna protonate the nitrile group in the low pH
environment of my gut and give me low-grade cyanide poisoning by jamming my
ox-phos pathways. Which is probably why the almond plant makes the stuff: eat
enough of its seeds and you'll die and be no further threat to its species. Why
my other cells wouldn't also try and metabolise the stuff, and die trying too,
eludes me.

Whatever it is, it's not gonna provoke a long term immunological reaction
anyway, which is why I'm going for the lipopolysaccharides.

Laetrile's not any good as an antineoplastic according to my Dictionary of Plant
Toxins, nor according to my Merck Index. These two tomes haven't jerked me
around before. I'm thinking maybe what I am up against here is anecdotal
evidence unquantified, and amplified, through the meme-propagating power of the
internet. So now I've gotta go back and the people who swore the stuff'd cure me
are gonna ask me if I've investigated their amazing wonder cure, and I will tell
them yes, I have - but not with the same conclusions as they have.

Maybe they'll say, Oh, ok, go ahead and ignore our advice, see if we care if you
die. It's only half as insane as shooting up yer metastasis with dead microbial
coatings. Which is what I'm investigating day after tomorrow.



Jan 12 

I was listening to Regurgitator's Unit album today, on this thumpin' amp I
pulled out of the dumpster last week, and it has a great, great track on it.
Thank fuck there's musicians somewhere with their heads screwed on properly.


 All that I am and all I'll ever be
 is a brain in a body.
 And all that I know and all I'll ever see
 is the real things around me.

 All I've heard, and it's true - 
 there ain't no god, there's just me and you.
 I don't see a point to this place.
 But I'm happy to be floating in space.

 I won't mind if you're holding my hand 
 and life seems sublime when you don't understand 
 that the world turns around and it don't give a damn
 if we all die away and we never come back again.

 All that I am and all I'll ever be
 is a brain in a body 
 I live till I die, then rot away
 it's a beautiful story.

 All I've heard, and it's true - 
 there ain't no god, there's just me and you.
 I don't see a point to this place.
 I'm happy to be floating in outer space.

 I won't mind if you're holding my hand 
 and life seems sublime when you don't understand 
 that the world turns around and it don't give a damn
 if we all die away and we never come back again.






Is it better to proceed on the assumption that I will survive this? Maybe it is.

