To: the_dieoff_QA@yahoogroups.com
From: Guy Dunphy <guyd@zip.com.au>
Subject: Re: [the_dieoff_QA] The meat of the question
Cc: 
Bcc: 
X-Attachments: 
In-Reply-To: <200303112036.30036.yacinfo@mars.ark.com>
References: <b4m40r+58lt@eGroups.com> <b4m40r+58lt@eGroups.com>

At 08:36 PM 11/03/03 -0800, you wrote:
>
>Moderator:  "Memes" are ideas that propigate through the population
>because they increase inclusive fittness.

Not correct. Parasitic information systems do not necessarily benefit
their hosts (whether cellular, animal, mind or machine.) They only
have to reproduce themselves - sometimes at great, even fatal, cost
to the host.
The concept of 'Inclusive fitness' does not apply to memes, since memes
do not 'evolve' in the same manner as biological species. Memes exist in
a medium (mind and society) which is perfectly capable of spontaneously
creating substantially new, complete and viable memes. Deliberate creation
of new religions and economic systems, by an individual, for example.
This factor makes memes substantially different from genes, and makes
reasoning about memes via evolutionary theory very error prone.
For one thing, a viable meme does not have to obey the 'do not destroy
the entire host population' rule that biological parasites must. Memes
most certainly don't have to benefit their hosts, as if they were genes
conferring inclusive fittness.

Note that once genetic engineering comes into play, genes switch from
the 'biological, evolving' category, into the 'information system'
category. Evolutionary theory then ceases to apply to genes, and more
significantly, gene-based systems become susceptible to the risk of
'sudden parasitic catastrophy' - as are all other pure information
systems.

Any information system, in which new, complete, self-reproducing data
constructs can be introduced from 'outside', can experience sudden
degradation or even total collapse.


>  Since we are going to look
>at how memes work by looking at the meat, I am invoking Ockham’s Razor.
>There will be no more discussion of memes.

A contradiction. You are going to look at component 'y' of how 'x' works,
while blocking all discussion of 'x', including 'non-y' instances of 'x'.
This is an unreasonable narrowing of scope, given the prime topic.

Personally, I feel that social memes have played a central role
in getting the human species into this energy rat-trap.
Yes, the aspects of human nature that facilitate the existence of
future-limiting memes are among the causative elements of the
problem. But then, so are some more mundane 'meme-related' factors,
such as the existence of centralised world-wide meme-broadcast
systems (the mass media, and their corporate owners.)

So far, it seems we are all agreed that this discussion is not hoped
to reveal any 'salvation', and that we are having it purely for the
intellectual exercise of analysing how the Titanic came to be steaming
full speed into that big iceberg dead ahead, and perhaps looking at
the mechanics of the impact and sinking.

In this light, I for one would prefer to hear anything anyone here has
to say. After all, it is a group preselected for convergence of outlook
on the Dieoff.
If major areas of discussion are to be excluded, for instance because
the moderator doesn't like certain terminology, that will greatly
diminish the interest of the group. As well as cast doubt on the
validity of any 'conclusions' it may develop.

I understand that Jay has a lot of interesting things to say, in
particular on human nature and mind. But is this to be a lecture,
or a discussion?

If a lecture, then I will simply listen in appreciation.
If a discussion, perhaps Jay would care to at least briefly reply
directly to those whose posts he deletes, where members went to the
trouble to write articles on issues they felt were relevent?


Guy Dunphy