To: the_dieoff_QA@yahoogroups.com
From: Guy Dunphy <guyd@zip.com.au>
Subject: Re: Questions?
Cc: 
Bcc: 
X-Attachments: 
In-Reply-To: <b4j6ks+lf07@eGroups.com>
References: 

At 11:21 PM 10/03/03 -0000, you wrote:
>Are there any more QUESTIONS concerning energy?  If not, we will move 
>on to human behavior.
>
>But before we move on, you should unerstand that the future of global 
>society is one of ever-shrinking economic activity (in the physical 
>sense).

There is perhaps another aspect, that affects the 'shrinking economic
activity' of our species' future. One which might indicate more of
a 'shrink to zero, and stay there' case, than 'ever-shrinking'.

This is an 'After The Fall' question, taking as a given:

The oil & gas energy crunch has caused a collapse of industrial
society, and a massive, inescapable dieoff. A replay of past
history as discussed in Tainter's 'Collapse of Complex Societies',
but global, except global, and probably involving N, C & B weapons.

Humankind is reduced to small numbers, in subsistence societies,
which over several generations rapidly lose all scientific and
technical knowledge. Restart of technology-based industry is not
possible, due to the absense of high grade ores and profitable
energy sources, together with the debilitating effects of toxic
and radioactive remnants of our present industry.

The question is this:

What is the present global inventory of manufactured radioisotopes?
How many kilos/tonnes of each isotope, with what half-lives?
What is the disposition of these materials?
How long will their present containments last, given absense
of all maintenance, and even vandalism by ignorant scavengers?

Has anyone done a rough guestimate, of what the resulting
average environmental radiation would be, over the future
hundreds and thousands of years? As all containments of short
and long lived radioactive material fail, and the materials
enter the biosphere?

It occurs to me that perhaps we have created enough long term
waste, that once it becomes spread around (as it will), the
background radiation level everywhere on Earth may well be high
enough to eliminate all forms of life other than bacteria living
deep in the crust. Even though some simple cell species have
evolved a tollerance of radiation higher than the average, still
there is a limit to how much continual damage any living thing
can adapt to. It is unlikely that multicellular organisms could
ever evolve a radiation resistance much higher than at present,
and besides, the period of rising levels will be far too short,
in evolutionary terms, for much adaptation to take place.

As the decades and centuries pass, post-crash, I would expect the
number of local hot-spots to rise, and the general global background
radiation level to rise in a series of 'sharp' steps (decades long),
as one major containment failure after another occured.
Shorter half-life isotopes would be diminishing, possibly leading
to periods of temporarily declining average radiation. Yet there
would be repeated break-outs of quantities of the very long lived
materials, those with half-lives of hundreds of thousands of years.
Eventually, the overall level would begin to fall again, slowly,
as the long-lived isotopes decayed.

But the crucial question: what peak radiation level would be reached?
And what forms of life could survive this level, given that it would
likely plateau for centuries, even tens of thousands of years?


It seems possible, that in the fall of our civilisation due to our
stupidity and shortsightedness in walking out on this limb of
unsustainable energy usage, we may have doomed far more than ourselves.

There are other, even longer term consequences of the impending
collapse, that I would like to discuss, if others agree they are
relevent in this list. The relevence lies in the scale of the
disaster ahead of us, and the consequent scope of possible 'solutions'
that might be worth considering. If we were only discussing the
demise of humankind, to be replaced in time by some other sapient
inheritor species, then perhaps we should just let it go.

On the other hand, if it seems possible that the consequence of our
mistake will be the elimination of all significant life on Earth,
for many hundreds of millions of years, or perhaps for the remainder
of the existence of the solar system (a result of the 'other'
influences I have not discussed), then the stakes are much higher.
High enough that the 'let it go' option is not acceptable.

Guy Dunphy