jay@chatzilla.com
Dieoff_QA scope?

Hi Jay,

I notice you are holding back that 'rising radiation
after the crash' post I sent.
Is that because you feel its off topic, or because
its more appropriate in a later stage of the discussion?

Actually, with that I was kind of testing the waters -
that issue is interconnected with a number of other
aspects of the 'what is man?' question, that I suspect
you may not (perhaps) have considered.

In general, the central pivot of everything I'd like to
mention, is the logical consequences of genetic engineering
technology, and what such capabilities imply re the concept
of 'species'. As in: homosapiens is presently a species,
but once some individuals develop the technological means
to modify their own genes, they disconnect from the concept
of 'species'.

Consideration of the consequences of that disconnection
(undertaken even by single individuals), and the shift of
objectives and outlook which would inevitably ensue, leads
to some very interesting conclusions.

Conclusions which are highly significant, even at the scope
of questions like 'where are the other intelligent species
in the universe?'

I'll try to very briefly summarise my thinking here, and
ask you if you feel this matter is appropriate for mention
in your list.

* All species are gene-based. This will be universally true,
  if we take 'gene' to mean any information-carrying organisation
  of matter, where the information includes the construction
  blueprints for its own substrate. Genes are memes at the
  level of molecular chemistry - information that imposes order
  on matter, to achieve its own propogation.

* It will also be universally true, that life anywhere in the
  universe will 'evolve' in the sense that gene-errors in
  individuals of species competing within an ecosystem will
  result in long term variation (sometimes improvements in
  fitness) of those species.

* Sometimes, this process will result in intelligent species
  arising, within windows of time between repeated destructions
  of their ecosystems by external events (novas, interstellar
  dust clouds, asteroid impacts, solar output variations, etc.)

* As you know, the evolution of our 'intelligent species' seems
  to have resulted in a population of individuals who exhibit
  many behavioural traits which are more relics of their species'
  primitive past, than the result of abstract reasoning ability.
  This may or may not be a universal consequence of evolutionary
  development. I suspect it will be generally true, in that
  selection for survival also appears to select for 'flawed'
  thinking.

* Irrational instincts notwithstanding, an intelligent species
  seems likely to proceed upward on the 'science and knowledge'
  ladder. If some abundant stored energy resource is discovered,
  they will likely exploit it. They will embark on a 'technology
  spike', which since their industry will have developed much
  faster than their genetically programmed instincts can adapt,
  will very likely lead to exactly the crash we are approaching.
  This too is not a provable universal truth, but it does seem
  likely, given what we know of evolution and the rise of
  industry given a little knowledge.

* It may be possible, that there are technological escape hatches
  from this sequence, at least in the 'temporary' sense of holding
  off the energy crunch for a very long time. Something like a
  working nuclear fusion generator, or other 'technology-X' fix.
  However, that would not solve the key problem, of the incompatibilty
  of 'species-based' instincts, and the confict of population and
  pollution pressure  vs the limited resources of any given scope
  of colonisation. 
  Besides, in our case we don't have 'technology-X', and seem unlikely
  to find it.

* However, there is *one* technology, that casts a critical wild card
  into the game. This is a technology not commonly considered when
  attempting to project a species' path through its technology spike
  and decline.

  It is always the nature of information itself that brings surprises in
  any domain in which information can act. Who'd have thought, looking
  at a lifeless proto-universe, that information could appear out of
  chaos, and self-order its material substrate into life?
  Who'd have thought, given cellular life forms, of inanimate viruses
  able to organise those cells to reproduce the viruses?
  Who'd have thought, given a population of large-brained primates, that
  the memes of language, culture, law, politics and corporations could
  have piggy-backed into existence, one upon the other?
  Similarly, given a population of compatible, communicating computers,
  naturally parasitic data viruses exist. They can, and so they do. The
  simplicity and determinancy of computers compared to biological systems
  means that the viruses have to be written by humans, nevertheless, they
  exist.

  Universally, self-perpetuating information appears to exploit any
  available niche. So far, however, in all known cases the upper levels
  of exploitive information rest on the entire series of levels below.
  They all depend on our minds existing in a communicating society, which
  depends on our bodies, which depend on our cells and DNA (and the entire
  ecosystem of other species, cells and DNA), which finally comes down
  to the level of raw matter.

  This arrangement seems like it will be universally true, for all
  intelligent evolved life, everywhere. That will be the situation
  throughout the evolutionary process, right up to the point of a
  technology spike. All information constructs (memes) developing
  during the lead-up and the spike, will consist of a series of layers,
  each exploiting an older layer beneath it. Even memes residing in
  computing machinery depend utimately on the support of the architect
  species.

  Yet, this heirarchy of meme dependency is not _funadamentally_ inescapable.
  It is only inescapable so long as the basic foundations of that
  heirarchy are beyond the reach of deliberate manipulation by 'intelligence'
  at any higher level in the heirarchy. So long as a species cannot alter,
  or rather redesign, its own genes, its own material encoding, it can do
  nothing about the entire tree of biological dependency upon which all
  its memes (consciousness, knowledge, society, etc) depend.
  
  Thus the great potential of that wildcard technology - genetic engineering.
  As a species develops this science, it develops the ability to rewrite
  itself.
  Yet that is not quite correct. Science is carried out, ultimately, by
  individuals. Once the science of genetics achieves the ability to edit
  the genetic code of adult individuals, those with the skills of genetic
  engineering will be able to alter _their_own_ genetic code.
  This is a moment of similar significance to the first appearance of life.
  This is when a new type of entity appears on the stage - an intelligent
  individual diverging under their own control from the 'species stream'.
  
  Initial mistakes and failures are not significant. Once this potential
  exists, opening up an entirely new realm to colonisation by information,
  it _will_ be exploited. Individuals will embark on this voyage of
  exploration, headed to very distant conceptual shores. All limits of
  the human body fall away - death by time and accident become avoidable,
  and all attributes of the human existence become potential targets for
  re-engineering. There is also no particular reason why multiple individuals
  undertaking this process should conform to any standard template of
  alterations. Especially if the process is undertaken by individuals,
  acting in secret, it is most likely that the divergences from 'species
  normal' will be unique in every case. The result is one or more individuals
  that are no longer members of homosapiens. For the first time in the
  history of life on earth, an intelligent, self-modifying entity, able
  (potentially) to literally discard all the baggage of species membership.

  Looked at from the meme viewpoint, what happens here is that a high-level
  set of organised information (a consciousness) is removing by choice
  its dependence on existing lower and higher information constructs.
  It is replacing the entire matter-gene-cell-organism-ecosystem pyramid
  (and its inherent dependence on legacy energy sources), with something
  much more direct. Something engineered to minimise the complexity of
  layers intermediate to matter and mind. And dependent only on deliberately
  chosen energy sources. Fusion, technology-X, or whatever.
  It is removing _higher_ memetic layers, by nature of its non-membership
  of human society, and all the baggage that comes with that. 

  But the key significance lies in the outlook shift inevitable in those
  embarking on this journey. They cannot but consider the remaining,
  unaltered members of their prior species as competitors. Both for
  resources (there is no limit to such an individual's need for resources),
  and as a direct threat to their existance. It is certain that humans,
  as a species and society, all complete with their evolved instincts for
  elimination of the 'non-self', would take a dim view of the presence among
  them of such beings.

  It seems to me, attempting to think in the mind of such a self-engineering
  being, that my goals would be to live for as long as possible, travel quite
  a lot, and learn as much as possible.
  'Long', and 'travel' on the scale of the lifetime and size of the universe.
  As for 'learn'... who knows? But obviously, initial steps would have to involve
  developing into a multi-nodal spatially distributed entity (to avoid local
  accidents), and then getting off-planet as soon as possible and spreading
  out into a volume of space large enough to preclude destruction by stellar-
  scale 'accidents'. Interstellar travel becomes quite feasible, since time
  (or rather personal perception of time) is now a variable. If it takes
  a million years, and you'd be bored, simply shut down. Travel as a diffuse
  fleet of identical units, each holding a complete copy of the information
  that is your 'self'. Reintegrate and rebuild damaged/lost units at the 
  destination.
  
  The viewpoint of such a being, wandering among the stars over vast reaches
  of time and space, are fascinating to consider.

  But first, lets recap.
  The nature of matter and information leads to life. Life leads to intelligence.
  Intelligence leads to technology, which leads to both an industrial spike,
  and development of the tools for modification of the genes on which the
  whole thing is built.

  So we see that there are two divergent paths:
  1. A species goes through the spike, and destroys itself and its environment
     before developing genetics sufficiently to produce viable self-modifying
     individuals. End of story.
  2. Genetics and self-modifying individuals develop sufficiently before the
     spike to affect the outcome. Hostilities occur between the species and
     the individuals. Possibilities again diverge:
     a. The self-modifiers are destroyed. Species goes on to its destruction
        in the spike. End of story. Even if the species manages to survive
        and maintain (or regain) technology, this is unstable, since the
        potential to once again spawn self-modifiers exists forever.
     b. The conflict destroys all parties, and maybe the ecosystem as well.
     c. The self-modifier(s) triumph, and in self-preservation, eliminate
        all or most of their species. This leaves them (it) with more of the
        remaining resources, which are useful when you are trying to modify
        yourself into a fleet of interstellar ships.

  Putting it another way: The nature of life and intelligence is that it
  will inevitably evolve into beings which have control of their own informational
  construction. And that the concept of 'species' as applied to such beings is
  meaningless. They are all individuals. A given instance of the rise of
  technology among a species may produce as few as _one_ such entity, or
  several. But never anything like the numbers typical of a planet's dominant
  intelligent species - there are simply not the resources available to allow
  very many self-modifiers (and their industrial bodies) to survive.


  In our own case, it seems likely that we are going down path #1. Genetics
  has not developed fast enough.
  Path #1c is the interesting one - in which a spacefarer being is created.

  Even if a species were to make it into space during its spike, and find
  sufficient resources to extend its 'species-mode' existence for a long
  time, still will eventually develop genetics to the stage where self-modifiers
  exist, and this will spell the downfall of the species. No matter how
  numerous and widespread the species has become. Genetic engineering as
  a weapon simply trumps all other technologies.

  What I'm saying here, is that not only is species-nature incompatible with
  sustainable civilisation in the context of a planet's limited resources,
  but it is also incompatible with the long term presence of technology
  itself. Since technology inevitably involves genetic engineering, and
  that inevitably creates powerful beings with the motivation and means
  to end the existence of the species. Or at least, to definately block
  the species from getting into space and competing with the self-modifiers
  there.

  Note that this provides a potential answer to the question 'where are
  the aliens?' By 'aliens', we assume space-going, or at least space
  communicating, high technology civilisations. And 'civilisation' implies
  'species'.
  But we have suggested that technology inevitably converts a civilisation
  into a small number of independent self-modifier space-going entities.
  These would have no use for dreams of interstellar empire, and would
  probably act more like gypsies, than anything else. Travelling around,
  keeping a low profile, never exposing their key components to risks
  such as the dangers of inner planetary systems, warlike races, others
  like themselves, and so on.

  Masters of genetic engineering, frugal with resources, they'd probably
  develop standardised remote observation and manipulation units. Maybe
  such templates, or bio-plans, would even be traded among such individuals
  on their rare meetings over the millenia. Something simple, easy to make,
  might become the commonest pattern. Little grey guys, in saucers?

  In any case, what might be the most interesting thing for such beings?
  Observation of the rise and spiking of a new intelligent species?
  This can't happen very often. Now, if you were millenia old, had travelled
  across countless lightyears, and discovered Earth, what would you do?
  You have no relic of any species-based instinct, not event a ghost of it.
  You are not threatened by humans, since your 'self', your fleet of ships
  is far out in deep space, perhaps a spread tens of light years across.
  What would you gain by interfering, or even communicating? Nothing. Your
  only interest would be to observe, to watch as perhaps another like yourself
  is born. But if you touch in any significant way, you risk preventing that
  from happening; if the intelligent species became aware that beings such
  as yourself existed, and how they came to be, they would be warned against
  the potential rise of such beings among them. Which could mess up the
  potential for a new friend.
  Humans, and grass, are closer on the scale of developent than humans and
  such beings. The idea of communication is ludicrous.

  Its also worth considering what the opinion of such beings might be, on
  the possibility that our collapse may radiologically poison the planet for
  a very long time. I can think of a few points, but this is all getting
  too far into fruitless supposition land.

  One other thought, in deep blue conspiracy vein, is to wonder if the world's
  money elite have thought any of this through? Along the lines of 'if
  we kill off the billions now (in their sleep), rather than waiting till we
  all die in a horrible fighting crash, we'd have more resources and time
  to try out this genetics imortality thingy.'

I could go on about this for some time, but will stop now.
There's easily a book or two in there, and one of them definately has to
be a sci-fi novel.  Wish I could write better!


  

Oh, by the way Jay -  (below is NOT for posting)

I mentioned 'fusion' as an energy source, and I'm sure you rolled your
eyes at that. However, I didn't throw that in lightly.

Have you ever heard of Philo Farnsworth? Inventor of actual, working
electronic television, as opposed to clunky, non-transmitted mechanical
systems such as Baird's.
In his later years, Farnsworth also worked on a novel topology of fusion
generator. Simplest to say, its a kind of radio valve, which was Farnsworth's
field of expertise (genius, actually.) And got it working - stable, above
unity, repeatable fusion. Lots about this on the web - I can send you a
bunch of links if you like. Usual story - project shut down by financiers
once they realised its potential to upset the apple cart. Inventor dies
soon after. Farnsworth had many patents, most related to valves and TV,
but the last three for his fusion devices. These are available on the web.
People have been replicating his work in the last few years, successfully.
Only one problem - an aspect of the design severely limits the power output.
Some wire structures are within the plasma shell (only a few inches across)
and melt at higher power.

Anyway, I feel this stuff is significant, because I can see a way to
completely eliminate that problem. Something that seems obvious once you
see it, but doesn't 'suggest itself'. Maybe I'm wrong, maybe not. Only trial
will determine. Result if it works: portable high power fusion generator,
hydrogen (water actually) in, electricity/heat out. And no, nothing to
do with that cold fusion crap. Nor is it thermal plasma containment.

This is something I'm working on, on the principle 'if you want something
done right...' Long story, I'm happy to describe in more detail if you like,
but not yet publicly. (Since I'd like to stay alive.)
If it ever works, I'll do a net broadcast, anti-patent, full theory and
practice paper. Not to let it be suppressed. But (if in time at all) well
_after_ the major dieoff.

Anyway, you never know. Events may yet surprise us. Though personally, I
also think its way too late.

Regards,
Guy Dunphy