From guyd@zip.com.au Wed Sep 19 21:55:46 2001
Date: Wed, 19 Sep 2001 15:55:32 +1000
From: Guy Dunphy <guyd@zip.com.au>
Reply-To: cave_clan@yahoogroups.com
To: cave_clan@yahoogroups.com
Subject: (C/C) The Baited Trap

Just to get this on record, here is a Conspiracy Theory
slant on the WTC bombing, and future events. Actually,
more of a Conspiracy Guess than a Theory, since its
entirely without evidencial support (so far.)
Just a queasy gut feeling.


WTC, Pentagon, Afghanistan - a baited trap?
-------------------------------------------

The US govt & media insist the hijacking/bombings were
planned & financed by Usama Bin Laden, because 'it was
his style' and some of the people involved have had
association with him in the past. There may be other
evidence we are not yet informed of, but so far I'd
rate the connection as tenuous.

Meanwhile, Laden denies responsibility, claims he is
isolated deep in Afghanistan with no comms abilities
other than written messages sent by foot. This matches
claims by the Afghan/Taliban govt, who say they took all
of Laden's comms gear. Whether this is believable or not,
lets for a moment consider that it may not have been Bin
Laden, who else it might have been, and what else may be
in store.

Some people have suggested it could have been the US government
itself - an atrocity staged to achieve a number of objectives.
It would put an end to any talk of states such as Texas
ceeding from the union, an end to public opposition to
communications monitoring by law enforcement (and success
for government controls on strong encryption and net
privacy), free the governments hands to take radical
military action internationally, and so on. The Reichstag
Fire hypothesis.

This seems unlikely. For one thing, consider the targets chosen.
The WTC and the Pentagon are actually key components of the
US military and economic domination of the rest of the world.
The same public shock factor could have been had by wrecking
some other icons of American national pride: Golden Gate bridge,
Empire State building, Statue of Liberty, etc. So it wasn't a
US government 'power and control' bid. 
Even though it will, sadly play directly into their hands in
that respect - as seen already in the kinds of draconian,
civil-liberties trampling legislation being rushed into Congress.
Not to mention duplication of the Gulf of Tonkin mistake,
in Congress granting the President virtually free reign to
conduct such war(s) as he sees fit.

Who else might feel cause to take such retributive action?
Internationally, there are many, many groups that have suffered
enormously over the past decades as a result of US foreign
policy. Whole societies and nations that have suffered mass
killings, starvation and destruction (both by bombs and economic
enslavement) as a direct result of US military and political
actions. Almost all of South America, most of Indochina, Africa,
many Pacific Islands, most of the Balkans, most of the Middle
East, much of the ex-USSR (swathes of its industrial capacity
striped by US-based multinationals since the fall of Communism,
thus worsening the already chaotic and cripped Russian economy.)
Indeed, the list of nations nominally friends with the US is
growing quite short, far outnumbered by the enemies of the US.

We could divert here into a discussion of why and how this has
happened, and what can be done about it. Yet others are addressing
that question; such as the head of the World Bank, who recently
made the radical suggestion that since terrorism arises from
the hatred and injustice of global poverty, then perhaps the
West should act to eliminate world poverty, rather than
attempting to bomb and starve hatred out of existence.

Here instead, I shall concentrate on the matter of 'who dun it'
(if it wasn't Osama Bin Laden.)

There are many players with the motive for such payback. Perhaps
more than half the world's population may have smiled on September
the 11th, 2001, at that great loss of American life. That this is
so does not justify the attack, or absolve the murderers of those
innocent people. It is simply so. It is the duty of Americans
to consider _why_ this is so - how their leaders have brought
their once moral nation to be an object of hatred for so many.
This line also is one I shall not pursue here, though Truth
demands it must be pursued.

There are also many countries and groups who could muster such
individuals, ones with the fanatical resolve and commitment
proven in the act of flying suicidally into the face of a building.
For all that President Bush declares such acts 'cowardly', one
must admit that it was in fact high bravery, however madly
homicidal, however unjustifyable.

We can only examine the crime for clues about the capabilities
of the perpetrators, and what that tells us about who they may
be. Some points:

* The airliner hijack teams were definately middle eastern, and
  apparently Islamic. From this we could presume an Islamic
  motive, such as a desire to eject the US from the Holy Land.
  But we must remember it does not prove that was the prime
  motivation of the organisers. They may simply have found
  willing martyrs in Islam.

* They had spent some time in the US, with their own families
  and with others, taking pilot training for their mission.
  This tells us there was a fair amount of money behind the
  plan. Enough that minor ethnic/tribal groups are likely ruled
  out.

* Despite the time spent in the training stage (more than six
  months?), and the numbers of people involved (more than 20?)
  no hint of the operation leaked to US security services -
  including via Echelon and Carnivore, the global and local
  manifestations of US ability to monitor nearly all electronic
  communications worldwide.
  This tells us that the operation was fairly sophisticated.
  Its organisers either managed to impose a total ban on use
  of electronic communications for mission-related information,
  or used strong crypto and/or steganography (hiding messages
  in superficially innocent media.)

     ...more to add....

So we are seeking a perpetrator with these attributes:
* Considerable skills in the area of espionage and covert
  activities,
* Resources to gather information required to plan such
  an action,
* Financial, personel support and 'documentation' resources
  to conduct a lengthy undercover operation,
* With a totally leakproof executive structure,
* Resourceful and ingenious - hijack an airliner with keyring
  knives and shaving gear, then combine two symbols of western
  technological might (airliners and skyscapers) into a weapon
  of mass destruction,
* Able to recruit (or dupe) personel into the project, with
  the intent of laying a trail of association pointing in some
  desired (miss)direction, in order to avert detection even
  after the event.
* Possibly, rather than a general, long term grievance with
  US policy and actions, perhaps some more recent, urgent
  motivation?
* Had the engineering ability to predict that a plane crash
  would bring the WTC towers down - not by direct impact, but
  by heating the structural steel in a jetfuel furnace.
  I make this guess, by putting myself in the place of the
  second plane's suicide pilot. Approaching, he sees the first
  tower has been struck, but not collapsed. His choice: hit
  the first tower again, hoping to bring it down, or go for
  the other - and maybe bring down neither tower? He clearly
  did not waver, and went for the untouched tower. This does
  not prove he knew they both would inevitably fall, but it
  is suggestive.
* Psyop skills. Perhaps another organiser might have gone for
  synchronised, simultaneous hits on the towers. With no warnings
  of the hijacker's intentions it would have been feasible to
  circle the first plane until the second arrived on scene.
  But they went for a seperation long enough for many video
  cameras to focus on the tower pair, thus ensuring those
  horrifying, searing images of the second plane vanishing
  into a wall of exploding glass, steel and fuel. Full marks
  for maximum psychological effect.
* An awareness of the crucial role played by organisations
  resident in the WTC towers, in the maintenance of the world
  economic order (or rather, the US world economic fantasy.)
  The Pentagon, and the WTC - the right and left hands of the
  New World Order (US style.)



There is one possiblity that may not have occured to you, but
to examine it we must first go back in time a little, and recall
a seemingly unrelated disaster.

On Sept 11 2001, it was a year and a month since the Kursk exploded
and sank, killing all aboard, including a number of high Russian
naval and political figures. At the time, the Kurk was on manoevers
with the largest fleet of top-line Russian navy ships seen in
one place for decades. It was later confirmed to have been there
to demonstrate a newly installed weapon, with significance at
the strategic, global balance of naval power level. Hence the
unprecedented list of high-level observers on board.
The weapon system was a supersonic torpedo, the development of
which had been discussed in a New Scientist article some months
before. Presumably, the system would have been tested at great
length, and been considered safe to use, before the Russions
would risk fitting it to their very best, most modern and biggest
nuclear submarine, and firing it with numerous luminaries aboard.
We must presume that US intelligence groups were fully aware
of both the new torpedo, and that the Kursk was to demonstrate
it, and of its implications for the global balance of naval power.
We can assume they would be extremely unhappy with these events.
All those things are givens.
The factually unsupported leap of assumption is that the US may
have had something to do with the catastrophic destruction of
the Kursk - whether sabotage or direct (covert) attack. It does
seem sadly reasonable to consider.

Supposing for the moment that this was the case, and that the
Russians came to the conclusion soon after that the US was either
implicated, or at least strongly suspected. How would they react?
Would they challenge the US openly? I don't think so. That would
not bring back the dead, there would be little chance of proving
anything (and in what court?), or of enforcing reparations. And
it would complicate any chance of covert Russian retaliation.
Open retaliation is of course out of the question, since even
very angry Russians don't want a nuclear WWIII. Remembering that
these are people who lost personal friends and associates on
the Kursk, I suspect they might quietly swear bitter revenge,
much as the US is doing far more noisily right now.

But what form of revenge? My guess is: something in kind, but
larger. They would wish for great losses to the US navy, or US
military in general. Preferably without implicating Russia, at
least in any way the US could publicly admit to suspecting.

Which makes for two problems. How to actually achieve the blow,
and how to avoid visible responsibility - or at least achieve
plausible deniability?

The Blow.
The Kursk was not destroyed on Russian soil. Also, a direct,
massive (chemical, nuclear or biological) attack directly against
the US mainland would be likely to provoke full scale nuclear
warfare. Attempting to put myself in the Russian mindset, I
suggest that something involving the destruction of a sizable
US military (or preferably naval) force might seem a suitable
payback. But again, this could not be attempted in US territory.
Quite apart from the difficulty and uncertainties of smuggling
nuclear weapons into zones with emplaced warhead detection
facilities, such an attack would be seen as an attack on the
US itself, not just a distant military disaster.
Also, I imagine there might be some intent to teach the US
another lesson about the risks of meddling in distant lands -
since they seem to have forgotten Vietnam.
So the exercise becomes one of finding a way to bring such a
large US military force to the bomb, rather than bringing the
bomb to them.
Well hidden, well shielded nuclear landmines (or sea mines)
can be as ridiculously huge as you like. Particularly if you
and your allies have been a bit sloppy with the plutonium
stocktakes in recent years.

The Patsy.
In order to deny guilt, one must have a patsy, an obviously
guilty party. In this case, how convenient if the patsy is
also the bait. How convenient if there is an outstanding
candidate already in place; one who will likely _stay_ in
place due to Islamic solidarity, and who will require a
rather large military force to extricate from his refuge.
I give you: Uuuuuusssama Bin Laden! He's bad, he's fanatical,
he hates the USA! He's wanted for bombings, and he's making
rude gestures in the direction of your flag! It was him,
it was him! All the clues we find point to none other!

Note the the only faint ally the US might have had in
Afghanistan, the one man who may have been able to broker
the delivery of Bin Laden, was assasinated this week.
Gee, I guess it will be troops after all.

Two Birds.
Lastly, what portion of the world would the planners of this
sequence feel the least remorse about turning into a radioactive
graveyard for US troops and locals alike? Not their own soil,
of course! Nor any of their allies or neighbouring lands.
Nor anywhere with potentially useful resources.
How about some insignificant, troublesome nation, that had
already made a distinct nuisance of itself by humiliating
your own army? And which was exporting destabilizing militant
Islamic fundamentalism to your own peripheral states?
How about Afghanistan?


So, that's the idea. As Larouche guessed (3), someone wants
the US to act in a programmed manner in response. The trail
is scented, the trap may be laid.
Follow that path very, very carefully.

And remember. Military violence and destruction rained on
innocent civilians is _never_ ever right. No matter what the
provocation, no matter how burning the desire for revenge.

Guy Dunphy


References
----------
1. http://www.uspsisquad.com/russiansub/martin7.htm
   The Kursk, commissioned in 1995, sank on August 12th with
   118 people aboard in 354 feet of water in the Barents Sea.
   It was an Oscar II type nuclear-powered cruise missile
   submarine (SSGN). Oscar II class submarines are mammoth,
   one of the world's biggest submarines, 505 ft. long and
   displacing 19,000 tons.


2. http://www.rense.com/general3/debris.htm
   Then came the August 22 Pravda.ru story: "On Saturday August
   12, an incident occurred in the Barents Sea, where the Russian
   Federation's Northern Fleet was conducting exercises, which
   nearly led to the outbreak of full-scale combat -- a third
   world war..... For several days, the world hung by a thread
   and one false political move could have led to an exchange
   of nuclear strikes."

   Citing hydroacoustical evidence of three explosions, the
   possibility that the Kursk had suffered a torpedo attack." 
   Pravda.ru described the incident as a possible casus belli
   but concluded, "Happily, the incident in the Barents Sea was
   successfully resolved by political means. Agreement to 'end
   the affair in peace' was reached during a telephone
   conversation between Vladimir Putin and Bill Clinton.
   The President's conversation lasted 25 minutes and nothing
   of its content was reported in the mass media.


3. http://www.larouchepub.com/pr_lar/2001/010911stockwell.html
   On-air interview during WTC attacks
   LaRouche: Somebody wants this thing to go out of control.
   That's why they're doing this. This is not an attack; this
   is a provocation. It's a provocation with an intention behind
   it. To create a programmed reaction from the institutions
   of the United States. This is not some dumb guy with a
   turban some place in the world, trying to get revenge for
   what's going on in the Middle East. This is something different.





 

Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/ 


