From predator@cat.org.au Sun Feb 22 15:42:49 2004
Date: Fri, 20 Feb 2004 23:03:03 +1100 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: degenhardts@ozemail.com.au
Subject: Drills, tours, obscure practices with vinyl products



Hi Daaaave 8-)  Hi Leoni 8-)

> I'm glad you worked out the method for sharpening drill bits- even if I
> hadn't told you, I'm sure the logic would have prevailed.

Logic is one thing; cutting surface topology quite another. That the
leading edge had to be on the outside of the drill was counterintuitive.
I'd always assumed that the edge where the two surfaces met (at the axis
of the bit) were what did the initial drilling (for normal bits, not auger
ones or WC types such as used in masonary apps). Nice diamond cutter did
the work. Have to go slowly or the bit gets hot and goes red and softens
the metal from which it is made.

>  the extra words at the end of 'have a drink on me' are what is referred to
> as poetic licence- I think. they had to have something that was theirs!

Heh. I couldnt figure out how a one legged cat could *get* on a frozen
lake let alone bury a turd on on it. 


>  trip to Gerroa is about 10am, and if necessary  I will refill your huge
> petrol tank.

12L ... uh, when was this exactly? Need a date in advance. And address,
and such.

> date to be finalised when normality returns- probably next year ! I'll let
> you know

Next year! Huh? Uhmmm... I'm almost sure I'll live that long.

------------------
Power tools and tourism aside:

In other news, I've been playing with Gramofile again - which is designed
to digitise the audio feeds from vinyl records. This is for two reasons:
1) there are CDs around with something called Copy Control on them -
errors designed to stop the 'poota reading the disk, and 2) I have CDs
which have scratches in them which are beyond cdparanoia's ability to
error-correct them during normal ripping.

Now, gramofile takes an audio feed into a soundblaster, digitises it, then
writes a .wav file (suitable for feeding to cdrecord later) to the
harddisk. So as long as you feed in a clean signal not so loud it clips
(gramofile will tell you if this happens so you can play the source again
at lower output volume) and not so quiet the SB processor noise is
noticable, you can rip from the audio output of a CD player, either at
line levels (2.5V peak-to-peak) or headphone levels (for high impedance
devices) and get really good quality sound. Check 'em out in real time
with xmms. Gramofile also has auto track splitting and will de-hiss/de-pop
the output at your request.

Using the error correction in a regular audio CD player, and using this
method to digitise the output sound, I can hence copy any copy control
CDs, and I can also get around CDs so scratched cdparanoia barfs on them
all night. 

And I can also rip vinyl, which is relevant to you dave since you
mentioned there were some records you wanted digitised. You've paid for
the right to listen to these already so I think it's legally fair use to
rip these so you can, say, listen to them in your car CD player.

I figured out what the problem was with the .wavs which tended to be
produced by my old version of gramofile. cdrecord complained about them.
It wasn't finishing the wav files off in a sector which was a multiple of
2352 bytes so the .wav file was unsuitable for writing a track to cd.
There are two ways around this. Whereas normally I'd do

#cdrecord -audio dev=0,6,0 speed=4 -v track*

now I use the pad option to fill up the last sector with zeros so cdrecord
can cop it:

#cdrecord -audio dev=0,6,0 speed=4 -v -pad track*

Which means there's now a bunch of zeros at the end of each track to fill 
up the sector, and a fraction of a second of silence between the tracks,
but it was gonna be there anyway 8-) Turns out modern versions of
gramofile deal with this anyway, it shortens each track to 1/75th of a
second (588 samples/second at 44kHz).

So. Get yer records out. It's rippin' time.

8-)

<predator>

