From predator@cat.org.au Sat Apr 17 21:15:52 2004
Date: Fri, 16 Apr 2004 23:12:40 +1000 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: wonkie@cat.org.au
Subject: Re: Approaches


This'd be more thoroughly written but time is short. 

On Fri, 16 Apr 2004 wonkie@cat.org.au wrote:

> Hey babe,
> Hope you got home ok. 

Yeah dude. I actually popped over to your place today and slapped the
spoke into your front bike wheel. It's fitted and cut to length but the
wheel needs to be trued and reinflated. Then the brakes need to be fixed.
The drive chain is becoming rusty in the rain. I left a note on your
bedroom door about it.

I hope ya didn't get too angsty to the sound of the gate closing and the
engine revving up and all that. It hadn't occurred to me until I got to
Sydney it might be the last time we saw each other depending what Bill
does. Sux, sux, sux. Time nazi c'est moi.


> Hope also that Bill has calmed down.

Nope. I'm getting a bit fearful. Whereas 6 mths ago I had an 80% chance of
being dead within two years, I now have an 80% chance of being dead within
18 months. Statistics are a shit that way. Cancer sux and the maximally
shitful part about it is I don't know when the axe will fall. I'm headding
south on Apr 23 or so, and north to Lismore on May 2. If I'm still compus
corpus.

Bill is like a prison guard who can beat up on me with no fear of
reprisal. I popped along to 343 and had a load of i.v. ascorbic acid
shoved up my arm. I don't think it's done anything noticable yet. My guts
still hurts and I dunno why. Swallowing, sneezing, talking hurts and my
voice has changed a bit. I could barely walk the dog this morning cos my
guts hurts with each footstep. The neck area is tender and oedematous. I
am reminded of it continually. Diamond's shitful events are popping up in
my consciousness. At least I can still take a piss though.

> I had a lovely couple of days with you up here and I'm really sorry
> that Bill spoiled your last day here.


Arr. I was gonna leave at about midday Thurs anyway to beat the traffic in
Sydney. Running away from myself is probably a reasonable, if irrational,
response. Threatened animals get grumpy and I'm no exception. In Bathurst
I am away from most of my life and bill suddenly appeared to want to
throttle me.

<crude, base, gruesome and pathological>

Bill wasn't the only thing niggling though at the mo he is the primary one
by rather a long way. Valuable hugs, chats and emotionally wrenching
emissions of snot aside, what I consider to be my rather lackluster shag
performance has me a bit spooked too. I like getting you off and I think
it's a great privelage and joy to be there when you do. And I like getting
off with you so I kind of get anticipatory about the possibility of it but
I know you're not always gonna want to accommodate that and it's OK, I'll
live (or wank or something). I don't feel as if your other shags are
wearing you out, but maybe they are, but if they are well 1) enjoy! and 2)
that's my tough luck I think. And we're getting older, I'm not a
18y.o. energiser bunny impersonator.

I just dunno when yer up fer it or how to read you, and how you feel about
it (i don't want you to feel at all compelled), and wether or not my
cantankerous middleaged carcinogenated carcass deigns to provide me with a
usefully hard cock, and wether or not I'm pondering the scary prospect
that the shag I think I'm about to participate in is my last shag (which
raises the anxiety a bit and kills hardons rather well too). Anyway if you
do feel like shagging me then I'm defaultly interested 'cos I still think
you're a spunky chick and I love you and I think you're the greatest thing
since crystallised oestrogen and I just had to get home and wank about you
when I got there and I came all over my last clean singlet. If you find me
limp it's probably because I'm distracted and need to climb out of my
skull a bit. The implement can be reliably provoked by fellatio, lower
abdominal/suprapubic wet hot kisses, very light sac stroking and a number
of other things.

I've never asked of anyone else this request so it's a bit hesitantly
delivered:  please take it easy on me arsehole. It bled after you
fingerfucked it on Sunday, which was a bit uhh... scary. I think that was
partly why I didn't get off that night - pain. And you needed to jump off
(girl's gotta do what a girl's gotta do, no wuckers) and I'm a bit shy
about wanking. Torn rings are not brilliant and not bacteriologically good
for either of us, potentially.

Other commentry concerning condoms and mutual usefulness of shortening the
time between my getting hard, and my locating/opening packet/orienting
condom in dark by feel, putting it on and then stabbing you blindly in
the leg several times, can wait. I'm sure I wrote it down somewhere else
before. It's about as tedious as you'll ever get it but maybe I'll be the
only person who'll ever give you The Word on this subject.

</crude>

...shoot me now. ;)


> I love you lots and am missing you already. 

Arr, thanks. 8-) 

Mmm. It might be emotionally defensively useful to get used to missing me.
8-(

I think Carol shouldn't be mad at Keith or me for my moving heavy rocks on
Tues, if she thinks that's what's provoked Bill's recent outburst. It
wouldda happened eventually anyway i think. Abseiling, thrashy shags,
mountainbike rides on bush tracks, etc etc... something woulda provoked it
eventually. 

> Taught myself to use the saw and what I think is a G-clamp this
> morning. Very proud of myself. 


Excellent. G-clamps are good things. There are limits to how long they can
reach, tho. They can also bruise the wood they grip, but there's ways
around that. There are also things called pipe clamps for clamping really
long things. Like rows of floorboards.

I assume you used the hand saw? Mmm. Do try not to saw through nails, it
blunts the blade, so check for nails in the old wood first. That's the
usual thing I do wrong. Aside from chopping my thumb open dragging the
blade backward for the initial cut. Saws make a great bwaaaaing sound when
they flex too. ;)


> Swung the blocksplitter around a bit too but had no actual blocks to
> split.

Yeah. I think I smashed the chopping stump with it on follow-through with 
the blocksplitter on some gnarly hardwood chunks. Glad if you didn't smack
yer leg with it.


> And I haven't had a cigarette since yesterday. My mouth is full of
> that metallic nicotine taste but that wears off after 48 hours or so.

It might take your nicotine receptors in your head a while to
adjust. Lungs take years to recover and never completely do. Make your
choices, live your life, insert rah rah patronising lectures here.


I;ll give yer regards to Roey tomorrow if ya like.

> Joss

Love ya! gissa yell when yer back.


<predator>


