From predator@cat.org.au Fri Nov 10 14:54:53 2000
Date: Wed, 18 Oct 2000 21:42:59 +1100 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: Simon Greenacre <sgreenacre@bigfoot.com>
Subject: Re: [imc-sydney] interview <long rant>

I would like that you post this to imc-sydney@cat.org.au if you feel it is
appropriate. Exclude the attachment, they've read it before.

> Dear <predator>

(heh)
 
> I can't seem to get my MS Word to save in ascii - unless that's text
> format. I've just pasted the questions into this email, so if the
> formating is out or something, let me know and I'll try something
> else.

Yeah, that's text format. ASCII= plain text.
 
> Sydney Indymedia Questionnaire
> 
> Basics
> 
>    
 a.. When was the Sydney IMC first envisaged? 

I think it was initially proposed to Catalyst at a monthly Catalyst
meeting in the now dissolved Emu cafe in Enmore, probably in about
February of this year. The proposal came from a pair of people active in
the Broadway Squats and another person involved in the Octapod in
Newcastle. Catalyst thought it was right up their alley and agreed to
assist in making it happen. It was initially planned to be hosted in the
squat but for the period during the olympics was staged in an old
warehouse. It was originally thought it would only operate over the
olympic period but has taken on a life of its own, there are people who
want to see the physical space continue. The website continues to operate
nevertheless, as was expected to be the case.


> For how long have you been involved?

Since the inception. I have had almost no direct involvement with the
precursor project, which was active.org.au - the engine of which runs the
indymedia sites and which was developed by Catalyst software geeks.


>     b.. What is your role within the Sydney IMC?

I was mainly responsible for hardware scavenging and configuration. I
sourced a lot of gear from dumpsters (mainly computer componentry, like
our 16-port hub, a motherboard or two, colour monitors, CD-roms,
harddisks, scanners, but also mundane stuff like door closers, chairs,
power sockets, fone lines, fire detectors etc), made some of it usable for
the Indymedia space.

I also put my twenty millidollars (2cents) in on some issues about how it
is run... I'm rabidly anti-censorship, for instance, so when people in IMC
raise this issue I tend to suggest it is inappropriate. I think
censorship, like hiding dirt under the rug, will not make things go away.
Ideological quarantine doesn't analyse or challenge the ideas under
confinement. But that's just my opinion, it doesn't count any more or less
than the next person's.

Part of my involvement with Catalyst is maintaining hardware which runs
some of the software which runs IMC. I also come along when the group
meets and decides together what IMC should do, how it should evolve in
Sydney.


>     c.. What, in your view, are the main objectives of the Sydney IMC?

It is, in my arrogant opinion, meant to do what the mainstream media fail
to do - it should provide a platform where anyone who normally might have
no public voice gets a say, free of censorship or hidden agendas (pleasing
advertisers or media owners, for instance).

Anyone should be able to post a story which they consider worthy of the
scrutiny of the public. If you can use a keyboard, and have even a cheap
computer (no need to pay to use Micro$oft products for access to
indymedia!) and have net access, then you've got access. You can, but
don't have to, add pictures, sound or animated video to your story.

There is necessarily a Sydney bias, we have hosted things relevant to
cities entirely separate to Sydney but the main focus is on this patch of
urban sprawl here. I notice, so far, that melbourne.indymedia has lacked
the Sydney-centric content that typified what I saw on the channel7
Melbourne news broadcasts, and I think this is a good thing. Local
variation and diversity are good things, I think they promote more
intelligent discussion and thinking than say, interminable tripe like The
Footy Show.



>     Some questions about you
> 
>     d.. What is your primary occupation?

Maintaining a standard H.sapiens chassis, which is the biological support
infrastructure and transport system for the brain inside it, which
harbours the personality which is giving you these answers. Translated
into English : staying fed, clothed, and alive. 8-) Expected time to
failure: roughly 11,000 days (- fatal accidents, + genetic engineering)

I occupy most of my time maintaining and configuring computer hardware for
Catalyst. I occasionally fix other people's machines. See also
http://203.57.122.1/~predator/getlaid.html 
concerning a project I'm doing for Catalyst so Catalyst can eventually be
free from the tyrrany of Telstra Bill. 


>     e.. How many hours per month would you spend in (a) paid, 

Lessee, I formally work in taxable employment about 1 month a year. A
standard working month is 24 days, so a twelfth of that is 2 days per
month. I do other work where I get paid in food, hardware, accomodation,
etc, which has the primary benefit that I am not compelled to directly
contribute to taxation revenue which would normally go on to fund all
sorts of morally bankrupt, undemocratically decided-upon things like
subsidies for corporations, parliamentary superannuation, etc etc. So it's
paid, but it sort of isn't, too. I've done paid work before in a variety
of fields, and in general find it sucks for various reasons, as you'd
probably understand. I don't spend any time doing paid media work. Some
people seem to want me to write technical stuff for some corporate media
IT mags, but I've declined so far and will probably do so until I am
totally broke and need the money. 


>        and/or (b) voluntary media work?

I write stuff occasionally for sydney.indymedia.org, but over a month I
probably would contribute less than five hours. I also write things which
appear on the Catalyst mailservers or CaveClan web ring (and, uh, I
occasionally submit to interviews like this one, heh heh) but I dont know
if they fit your parameters for defining voluntary media work. I don't
think I should feel compelled to contribute things if I am not
sufficiently motivated to write about them... it's not like I work for the
mainstream press and have a deadline a time slot / word quota to fill.

>     f.. Please describe briefly your educational background.

Formal education:
Invoked 1970
Avulsed 1971
Basic bodily functions 1972 
Basic language, pre-school (zzz) 1974
Primary School 1975-1982 (zzzzz)
Secondary School (zzzzzzz! Private, Boarding, Catholic; expelled 1988)
University of Sydney (B.Sc. Organic Chemistry, 1992)
Sydney Tafe : Explosives License (Seismic, Agricultural; 1993)
University of NSW (B.Sc.Hons, Pathology (mainly molecular genetics)) 1998
Additional stuff: computers, locksmithing, electronics, recreational
trespassing in the stormwater system and abandoned buildings.

Under development: article for scientific publication concerning the
information-systemic and thermodynamic optimisation rationales for the
encoding scheme used in DNA. (No-one ever seems to have thought to ask why
it's a 4-base/3-base per codon, system and not something else.)


>     g.. Would you describe yourself as a political activist first, and
> a media technician second, or as someone with a media or technological
> background wanting to apply these skills to activism?

It's a pretty broad question. Stand by for windbaggy answer.

If you could call my low-conventional-effort life activism (I hate getting
up early and commuting, I hate maintaining collared shirts, I hate bosses,
tax, meetings and corporate politics generally so I thought, no, corporate
'droid life isnt for me, I'm actually pretty lazy), then yes I was an
activist first, but only in chronological order (well, mainly an urban
tourist - if I had a slogan it would have been "Public access to Public
works!"), before unfettered-media got my attention.

When free media became available on the net, I naturally gravitated
towards free media. I think free media, and what is conventionally called
activism (and the people who practise it), dovetail closely. So I don't
know if it's possible for me to assign an importance-priority to them. I
cannot assign a priority to one or the other - _living_ a "different",
activist life, or telling people about the consequences and insights which
come from living a different (non-journalist) life, seeing the world from
a cogent perspective I've developed myself.

I think everyone is a political activist, and it is embodied in the
lifestyle choices they make.... which company do they work for, what
products do they buy. You'll note I didn't mention `who they vote for' -we
live in a consumer sovereignty after all, and how much sovereignty and
decision-making power you have is proportional to how much money you have
which in turn enables you to make decisions about what junk you'd like to
consume. If you have huge amounts of money, you can buy people, species,
governments, entire cultures. This is undemocratic, as is the current
(pseudo-)representative electoral system, where you are asked to choose
"To whom to give away your decision making power?" - which is not
democracy, it's institutionalised disenfranchisement. People are forced
into and then coralled by this system, and remain trapped there for so
long they become accustomed to the fetters... I guess they become
political non-activists, and default into becoming comfortable,
psychologically superannuated passivists.

I happen to have made choices which are different to those that a lot of
other people made, and if that is the criteria for being *labelled* as a
political activist, then that's ok. I think the point here is that I am
active in ways which do not support what many people would consider to be
my expected role in society - my parents, particularly, seem to think I
*should* be a good little genetic engineer at a respectably unaccountable
multinational biotech company somewhere, married, mortgaged and colluding
in the process of generating more consumers. They don't get it when they
ask me "So when are you going to do something with your life?" and I tell
them that I *am* doing something with my life, it just doesn't fit their
benchmarks. I prefer having a life to having a living. In the foreseeable
future, I'll be dead, and I want to have lived *my* life, not been an
underpaid substrate for a corporation's immortality.

In this way of life I've noticed all sorts of things are optimised for a
very small group of people for whom life is already pretty good, and
simuntaneously damaging to many other people, the ecosystem, overall
community cohesiveness, etc. I don't think that's good for all of us or
the long-term prospects of this species or its host ecosystem. 

I noticed that to say something against these infrastructural
inequalities, there were many layers of impediment - if you wanted to
suggest that the TV or newsprint media were shallow or biased, you
couldn't say it in the TV or newsprint media. Their 250-words-or-less,
30-second-sound-byte architecture is hostile to the development of
complex, fact-laden arguments required to (love the cliche?) `challenge
existing dogma', whereas Indymedia can cop a 100Meg file. I probably
haven't _said_ 100Meg of spoken word this year.
 
I used to write a lot of stuff on BBSs in the late 1980's, way before we
ever had the 'Net... it was the only way to have an uncensored text
conversation with real people in real time. It's probably all lost, but I
don't mind... maybe fragments of it remain in people's heads, subtly
subverting people's behaviour, making them a little more free and happy or
aware of where they stand in the universe.

When the Net appeared, I found Catalyst in the NSW PAMS (Public Access
Message System) list and got a user account there not long after. 

Before indymedia and active I'd post things on the usenet newsgroups,
and occasionally still do. 

A decade ago I started the Cave Clan in Sydney, which has diverted
thousands of human-hours away from TV watching or corporate drudge and
into pleasurable urban tourism. I guess that's a kind of activism, though
it might not fit into the stereotypical category where to be an activist
you wear a -Resistance!- T-shirt and walk down the road with a loudhailer.
A lot of the early Clan propaganda was distributed via the postal service
or over BBSs, which was free media but not properly networked, whereas the
Internet is continuously and reliably networked, mirrored, etc.

Being involved with Catalyst and Indymedia, building functioning computers
out of discarded junk, running free software and not Micro$oft bugware,
punching keys and writing email to people, answering interviews for
student assignments (heh), probably isn't the standard view of activism,
but I think it's activism nevertheless. That such activism happens to
closely interact with free media technology is to be expected, I guess, in
much the same way as one tends to notice the technologies of killing
interact with the process of waging a conventional war, or how
pharmaceutical technology interacts with the process of treating diseases.


>     Indymedia in general

 
>     h.. What do you see as the main role of indymedia?

I think the role I suggested for Indymedia Sydney is probably replicable
across the world, with some minor adjustments for things like
accommodating the local language. Stories without corporate bias,
censorshit, etc. A free media is an essential part of a functioning
democracy (neither of which do we yet have in the US, or here in
Australia).

I think the net is the natural enemy of the centralised print and
electronic broadcast media, and I notice that most of the services offered
by the Old Media Barony .com sites are, in one way or another, attempting
to turn the Net into another non-participatory, non-contributory news
channel, which fits into their top-down, television-mogul-centric
understanding of how the news _should_ be _controlled_ and _produced_
(emphasis on choice of words there). Your remote control is now called a
mouse ... shuddup and click on that shopping trolley icon. Provide value
to our advertisers.

At Indymedia we're not trying to sell an audience to advertisers. We don't
want to please anyone, we just want people to speak freely. We want people
to be able to search the old news archives, take copies of whatever they
find, say what *they* think, comment on what other people have said, most
of all, participate.

Apart from its current function as an open-access media channel, I wonder
if the engine behind indymedia could ever be refitted to the task of
running a realtime, online, issue-driven direct democracy, which is
something which I consider to be intimately tied to free media. See
attached rant.

>     i.. In your view, what are the main advantages and disadvantages
> of using web and other "new" technologies in diffusing information and
> solidarity between and within protest movements?

Advantages: speed, cheapness, ability to evade imbecilic censorship
laws, availability of privacy and authentication and non-repudiation and
anonymity if you want it, lack of necessity to physically come together 
to organise stuff, the ability to archive communications to see how
we did things *in the process of doing it*, and automation, of course.

Openness and public access to the inner transactions of Indymedia Sydney
was a significant feature, I think it made us more accountable and
accessible, hallmarks of a true anarchosyndicate. We didn't think we had
anything to hide, so we didn't encrypt anything though the tools are
available to do that if we want. It was very interesting to see that the
mainstream media wrote that the `police were monitoring the internet to
find out what Indymedia had planned for the Olympics'; now, to the
kept-ignorant public, that means the police had some sort of unauthorised
access to our network. What it actually meant was that they were reading
our quite deliberately public IMC email list archive.  I wonder when the
police will be so transparent, open or accountable. Or for that matter,
corporations, the judiciary, or governments. 

Disadvantages: in the main, corporations own the bandwidth (data movement
infrastructure like wires, optic fibres and satellites) and most of the
IPv4 numbers (internet addresses), and set profit-motivated (high) prices
for access and services (they charge about 20c to ship a megabyte of data
through their servers). Eg: your genome contains 3.2x10^9 base pairs. If
you had to pay 20c per million base-pairs, that's 3200 x 0.2, and
would cost $640 to move from point a to point b. For what it cost them to
set up the wires / lay the fibre / buy the computers / keep 'em powered
up, they're gouging very, very hard over the very long term.

I note that the ICANN requires a US$50,000 payment to even *consider* a
submission to host a top level domain... (.gov, .mil, .edu, .net, .org,
and country domains like .ru for Russia and .au for Australia) and .vote
is *not* one of the domains currently up for consideration. I'm interested
to know who is going to administer the .news TLD if it ever gets assigned.
CNN, I bet. Urghk.

The net has been changed into a .con, a marketing-driven consumer toy in
the last five years, and this limits what people are likely to suggest
about how else it is likely to be socially useful... they have been so
massively saturation-bombed with "buy shit via our .com site" that many of
them can't conceive of using the net for distributed filesharing {and look
how loud the music industry screamed "We (humungous, cashed-up, immortal,
intellectual property multinationals) need government protection from
Napster and DeCSS")}, open government, or free media or whatever else
(teledildonics?).


>     j.. What are the features of the IMC concept which make it
> transplantable to various locations and political contexts (eg Sydney,
> Prague)?

It's digitised code, a kind of cookie-cutter template for doing free
media, and not only can you can squirt it around the planet quick-smart,
but you can configure it to do things how you like, make the setup 
relevant to what you're interested in.

The concept is codified in open software standards (html, php, postgres)
which can run on (m)any machines able to process these languages. As such,
anyone who has a computer (even a not-fast, 10 year old one!) running say,
Linux (free operating system) netscape (free HTML-reader/browser) php
(free language for dynamic generation of HTML markup from database) and
postgres (free software query language/database software) can run an
indymedia server. So you don't need to shell out $400 for Windohz 2000
Perfesh'nal Bugware in order to "own your own press" and reclaim the
freedoms attached thereto.

Running costs (distribution, infrastructure, consumables) are low, which
helps... people without money are amongst the most disenfranchised in
our society. 


>     k.. Do you think indymedia is changing traditional relationships
> between protesters, states and the media? In what ways?

(first: read Noam Chomsky, Bruce(?) McChesney, Alex Carey to understand
the existing relationships) 

Uh... I don't think the relationship between protesters and the states is
changing much _per se_ - protestors often dislike what states are, and
much of what states do. States dislike protestors (and sic the riot police
on 'em) because they firstly are physical proof of the failure of
so-called representative government to be broadly representative or
participatory, and secondly because protestors want things to change.

Since government as it currently stands is essentially a public-accountability
facade thrown up by large corporate interests who infiltrate and fund it,
maybe this question might be better rephrased with the word "corporations"
in it somewhere.

Protestors have typically been painted up as stupid weirdos or <insert
usual derogatory stereotype here> by the mainstream media, and now at
least there's a comparison available to contrast against this. Given the
intelligent, articulate input from contributors to Indymedia who also
happen to be protestors in a lot of cases, I think it is now able to be
said that this portrayal of protestors as <insert usual derogatory
stereotype here> can be seen to be wrong. Protestors now have the
opportunity to _become_ the media and have their say from their
perspective, which has the happy side effect that they can bypass the
corporate media and its propensity for selection, lies and bias. Maybe the
public will gradually discover it, and get a taste for the rough but
authentic taste of life rather than the sanitised, dilute, filtered
impersonation thereof, percolated down to your local TV.

"Corporate TV went digital in 2010. As expected, content didn't improve."
							
The state, its parties and its bureaucracies are significantly beholden to
the whims of powerful corporate media owners, who shape opinions in ways
directly observable in the results of our sham elections. Perhaps if
Indymedia becomes widely distributed enough, the state will become more
answerable to the populace at large again (instead of being answerable to
whoever owns NoozLimited) and may eventually even dissolve as the public
rediscovers its ability to self-organise, thereby rendering the state less
relevant, in much the same way as technology and science have slain much
of the once unshakeable Church. You also don't need representatives if you
can represent yourself. Consequences of this for institutions such as
political parties and parliaments should be obvious.

I think in the long term the corporate media might ultimately have to
compete with thousands of unpaid, self-motivated, competant amateur
journalists who cannot be threatened with the sack, pay cuts, silenced
with censorship or editorial bias - that is, the people who undergo
first-hand the experiences which they'll write about on sites like
Indymedia. 

Micro$lop have had their dominance on a lot of the global computer
infrastructure clawed back from them by an army of dedicated programmers
worldwide; will CNN and TimeWarner and Sony (et al) be able to compete
with distributed amateur news production, millions of digital cameras,
millions of keyboards and eyeballs? 

I note that a lot of journalism students (when did universities start
pandering to this particular line of production-line type journalist
manufacture?) are hoovered straight up into the jaws of NewsLimited and
their ilk. Will they know about Indymedia? Will any of them do a Stuart
Littlemore, or leave the corporate journalism scene and operate as
freelance social commentators, or simply operate as unpaid contributors
(nb: Littlemore is paid and works for the increasingly corporate 
government broadcaster)? I don't know, but I guess at least there's
somewhere to go, now, and it costs next to nothing to have a real say.

Participatory democracy goes hand in hand with participatory media, after
all. I can't tell the future, maybe the net is just another corporate
domain now and forever, but maybe it isn't. Time will eventually tell.

> Thank you for your time and effort.

That's ok, it's ... uh, my job...

Go sponge those hurtin' eyeballs.

<predator>

    [ Part 2, ""  Text/PLAIN (Name: "democ_form.txt")  204 lines. ]
    [ Unable to print this part. ]

