File: information.txt
Cont: What the hell is information? An attempt to characterise it.

Blurb
-----
 
I had a quick look in Resnick and Halliday the other night, a standard
physics text. There is hardly mention of anything in the index for the
word "Information". Similarly, a quick look in the Penguin dictionary of
science lacks "information" as an entry. But it appears to me that almost
all complex molecules are packed full of the stuff, as are many forms of
radiation. In fact, it seems to be everywhere. Why has information not
been accorded its title as a fundamental property of the universe?
 
We live in the information age - whatever that is - surrounded by
technology which is constructed to manipulate information in particular
ways. The "information age" is a little bit of a silly term, because, in
fact, biological life is intrinsically, by its very nature, itself an
information processing system, so the information age has existed for
billions of years, and possibly for longer than that, but this fundamental
change in paradigm has yet to reach centrality in the minds of most people
who study information and the systems which manipulate it - computation
and biology.


A chemical / thermodynamic approach
-----------------------------------
 
I want to understand information from the ground up, so I choose a simple
example to illustrate what I think information is, and see if I can draw
some conclusions about information from this example.
 
Suppose we take two molecules which are identical in all but one respect.
I could take two isomers of a molecule. Isomers are made of the same atoms
but in a different spatial configuration. There are different kinds of
isomers and they are classified in terms of the sorts of configurational
differences they possess. These classifications probably reflect the sorts
of information which can be embodied in matter.

An example
----------

I will choose what appears to be the most simple case. I shall take two
molecules of a substance called lysine, an amino acid. This molecule comes
in two chemically similar buy physically distinct forms, one is left
handed and the other is right handed. Their physical properties are the
same except for the direction in which they rotate plane-polarised light.

What we notice is fundamentally different about each of these molecules is
that although they have the same atoms in the same quantity making them
up, their atomic configurations take up a distinguishably different, and
non-interconvertable configuration in space. 

[Pic: l-lysine and r-lysine]


(note: rotating plane polarised light is a form of information processing,
not information storage. Information about how to change the
polarisation of light is stored in the molecule itself, which processes
the photons which pass through it.)

Their chemical properties are different for chemical processes which
attempt to process the information stored in the molecule. For example, a
life-on-earth receptor protein which has evolved to detect lysine
molecules and pass on a signal, will only detect the L-lysine type of 
molecules and will ignore the other, R-lysine molecules. Receptors do what
is called an information-preserving operation - data transfer. However, I
digress.

However, chemical properties for both handednesses of the lysine molecule
are the same for simple information-losing reactions such as complete
combustion : you get the same quantity of energy, the same reaction
products, the same amount of irrecoverable waste heat, when you completely
combust L-lysine or D-lysine down to H2O, CO2, NO2, which are small
chemicals relatively denuded of structural information. Note that in such
a reaction you start out with the lysine precursor and a bunch of oxygen.

Stoichiometry determines the quantitative relationship by which the atoms
are de-configured into an activated complex and then configured into
small, relatively information-denuded units - and the total number of
atoms before and after the reaction is unchanged. 

[Deconfiguration releases energy, (re) configuration stores it]

The information loss arises from the fact that you could produce a similar
quantity of identical combustion products from a number of 
stoichiometrically equivalent reactions, but there is no way to specify
*which* set of precursors was the one which gave rise to the pile of
combustion products you now have. The number and type of combustion
products eliminates a vast numbers of candidates from the potential
"pool" of possible precursors - for example, the lack of sulfur atoms in
the combustion products eliminates all sulfur containing molecules from
the list of potential molecules which might have been oxidised to the pile
of oxides now in your bomb.

What has changed, is that if you now look at the products of the reaction,
there is no way to deduce the molecular configuration of their precursors,
or the way in which that new configuration was reached. If this
information wasn't written down or otherwise recorded, then the molecular
information is permanently irretrievable.

Where is the information? Has it gone, been converted to something else, 
or is it somehow embodied in the products? It appears to have been
eradicated - has it? Or is it merely embedded in some non-obvious place?

It is now encrypted in a medium in which we cannot distinguish it : the
complete-energy description, or Hamiltonian, of the several combustion
products, encoded in things like the complex rotational and vibrational
description of what such-and-such combustion product molecules are doing
at a given moment in time. I use the term encrypted advisedly, and because
it is appropriate - encrypted data is more "random" than any other sort of
data (this is one of the characterstics used to find encrypted data
amongst less random data, such as compressed data) and random is exactly
the word we use to describe the (Brownian) behaviour of such particles as
those produced in a combustion reaction. We then see this encrypted data
as heat. Combustion reactions, therefore, are a kind of irreversible (and
hence useless for secure message transmission) molecular data encryption. 

It is also considered extremely unlikely that the combustion products will
spontaneously reconfigure themselves into bare dioxygen and a little pile
of lysine molecules - but if they did, there would be an equal amount of
L-lysine and D-lysine (a raceme) produced as a consequence, because the
none of the combustion products have any handedness or any propensity for
handedness, and there are ways to construct the molecule using precursors
and reactions with no handedness or stereospecificity.

Information content of molecules and its quantification.
--------------------------------------------------------
I'm not sure that claiming that a combustion reaction simply randomises
information is a useful claim, but it might be useful to reverse the
process, and do a "de-combust" - or, in proper chemical terms, a
synthesis.

In this case I will not attempt to emulate the Miller-Urey experiments and
look at the information storage processes associated with generating amino
acids from simple elements. Instead I will think about information in
terms of the number of possible ways its constituent atoms could be
configured. I think this is an approach which can be scaled up to 
molecules which have an obvious and sizable information content,
such as a protein or nucleic acid.

I think there is a question of accessibility of information here.
Obviously you can take a bunch of atoms and configure them into a single
molecule (where all the information is stashed in the one structure). In
this case you can then look at the molecule and say, "Ok, NMR
and infrared signature like so, so it's such and such a molecule." 
Alternatively you can take these atoms and configure them into many little
molecules, some of which are the same and are therefore, as far as
information content goes, redundant. There is an information content bound
up in this bunch of small molecules but it is significantly less than the
information packed into a single molecule made from the same set of atoms.

The information content of a molecule must be
    
       actual configuration of atoms
 i = ----------------------------------
       number of possible configurations


There is then the issue of how probable is it that a given molecule should
even exist? A several megabase strand of DNA is never ever going to form
spontaneously out of H, C, O, N, and P atoms, though you might get a lot
of low-complexity things like aldehydes, oxides, simple nitro and 
phosphor compounds. How is the probability shifted from zero in a Miller-Urey
system to almost one in a biological system? Is information a way of
eliminating the laws of probability and collapsing uncertainty?

What is the energy cost of information stored in a molecule when one more
chunk of information is changed, retrieved or stored?













Zeroth law of information: Information can be created, duplicated, and
destroyed.

First law of information: When information is created there is a
corresponding increase in the total amount of information destroyed.

Second law of information: information is n one of two states, either
stored or in the process of being transmitted. 






---------------------------------------------------------------------------

What to do with this: compute an information-content for a molecule.
Then: give a formula for calculating the energy value for a piece of
information. 

How to do this? Absolute, relative, cumulative (stoichiometric) or groups
only?

Elements represent physical information storage units stripped of any
configurational data at the electron-shell level. (they contain info such
as proton/neutron numbers etc)



Group theory says that molecules with the minimum amount of symmetry have
the maximum amount of information in them, simply because the more
symmetrical the molecules becomes, the more degenerate (and tautological)
symmetries they possess - if you like, the fewer significant and
distinguishable spatial configurations their atoms can hold : you will
find fewer elements of symmetry in an information-storing molecule. Hence,
molecules with the most information-storing ability have only the E
(identity) symmetry operation, and generally not operations like D or C or
i (rotation, reflection, or point-inversion).

If this is the case, then the symmetry operations performable upon
information-storing molecules such as large aperiodical biopolymers
(proteins or nucleic acids) should only include identity, and not any
other symmetry operation. It is fairly obvious that proteins, for example,
are intractable to classification by group theory even though their
constituent units (such as glycine) sometimes do have several symmetry
elements in their structure.











What info does DNA really hold?

-instructions for copying itself (both in the self-template sense and also
in the sense that it encodes, in some genes, the instructions for building
the polymerase proteins which do this copying.)
 
-DNA packing on histones

-The linear spatal configuration of amino acdis in proteins.

Protens contain:
Function-switching information
Binding-specificity information
Molecule-manipulation information (such as using + residues to distort the
electron cloud of a substrate prior to some reaction occurring).

(1st order 2nd order 3rd order rn's : information process here?)
 



Error correction? Cost of doing/not doing?

