
From maffew@cat.org.au Tue Mar 25 22:45:57 1997
Status: O
X-Status: 
Date: Tue, 25 Mar 1997 22:45:57 +1000 (EST)
From: Matthew Arnison <maffew@cat.org.au>
To: cdubrow@real.com.au
cc: catkore@cat.org.au
Subject: iNsuRge research service catalyst article
Message-ID: <Pine.LNX.3.94.970325224156.3923A-100000@black.cat.org.au>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII

Hi Thanks for your q's. Also could you please change the link to cat from
your website to our new address: http://www.cat.org.au

-->>

Subject: Re: iNsuRge research service catalyst article (fwd)

-What is the Background to catalyst, how long have you been around and what
were you original intentions?

We started up sometime in 1994, came out of people at Jellyheads
Wharehouse wanting to start some multimedia activity; hooked into by
Newtown anarchist/activist underground.  Some critical Community Access TV
energy fused up into an internet trajectory.  There was also a push to
have anarchist media rooms in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane -- inspired
by Melbourne's Xchange Anarchist BBS, which had been bubbling along for a
while.  It's hooked into the oldest form of mass media, with nurturing
and location from Black Rose Anarchist Bookstore, Newtown.

-Do you see catalyst as part of the movement of activists away from street
based campaigning of demonstrations and leafleting to the more modern usage
of the internet and media subversion or is it just an expansion of
educational/activist outlets?

We want to be a catalyst to full on street activity and media subversions
in all their most funky radical forms.  Education and information and
networking leads to action. We want to subvert the medium of the web, by
being all about access to activist groups, collective decision making
(including sysadmin), open training and sharing the knowledge, and by
operating as a non profit internet node.  We wanna be an example of
anarchy in action. 

We are right into leafleting - we have a full desktop publishing setup so
people can run off hot flyers.

It's just as important that we are operating in an anarchist way than
exactly what comes out in the end.  Because the process or self-organising
defines an inherent alternative in what content gets onlline. 

-how important and effective do you think the internet is now and in the
future for activists and for achieving social change?

If you look at the big picture, it's completely fucked.  Just like TV.

Looking at it the other way, it can really help to hook people up
together, but it needs to be looked at as a much broader thing.  People
not only need to communicate but to act and to change.  You can't change
stuff purely on the internet, it's gotta hook into local organisation and
physical face-to-face interaction.  The internet can be a distraction, and
make you feel like you're changing things just by reading radical shit
that someone else is doing.  The trick is to pull people in to
participate.

The internet has been subverted from its military beginnings into
info-freedom anarchist models. Now global capital wants to reclaim this
land, catalyst is like a continuing stake in cyberspace that points to
anarchist interaction.  Multinational oppression can be fought with
multinational networking and *action*.  One thing the internet is great
for is supporting diversity, creativity and freedom.  These things are
never old fashioned and are always cutting edge. 

-What other organisations is catalyst affiliated with via the internet? Do
you see this kind of resource sharing and organisation linking as an
effective and  positive thing?

The most important thing is the real people using catalyst, like McLibel
campaigners linking up across the country.  Or Black Rose collective
members checking out radical titles available from distributors.  We
talked with Justice Action about getting a website setup, they've gone off
and done that. CAT TV has their website on catalyst, and is doing a lot of
networking around the place with other access TV groups.  You can see from
our website what we're involved in, but there's a lot of less visible and
more effective networking by email, personal conversations and on street
gatherings -- eg. critical mass bike rides and forest blockades. 

catalyst is part of anet, an Australian affiliation of online anarchist
nodes.  This is a way for anarchist people in different cities to network,
to collectively form overseas links, and to help each other out with all
the behind the scenes sys admin.  Each group is autonomous.

Part of the hassle of the internet is that is has all this potential, but
only 10% of people have access to it.  Together with anet we are working
to widen the kinds of people who can get online and do that networking
thing.

-What are your thoughts about recent criticism that many people are doubting
the effectiveness of particularly the web and pulling there accounts as it's
just too hard to sift thru the junk, combined with the right-wingers fear
that they cant understand it because they havent worked out how to make lots
of money from it? ( and has blackrose considered book distribution via
catalyst resources?)  

There's junk anywhere, in terms of info that's distributed in newspapers,
on TV etc.  Just because it's online doesn't remove the junk for people. 
If anything, because more people are able to publish, there's more
diversity.  So you need to be discerning and critical about what you read
-- whether you're eyeballing a newstand or a website.  We have to be
responsible for what we read, we can't always just let someone else do
our editing and thinking for us. 

What you do if you want community info, is you go to an infoshop.  Shops
like Black Rose are for dead tree material, catalyst is the online
equivalent.  There's a melding happening, eg. Versions of Freedom the book
and zine from the Sydney Anarchist conference (starring Noam Chomsky) is
being published in print and online.  Both the shop and catalyst are
spaces for interaction rather than just consumption.

-Did you have any technical problems with starting up / maintaining the
service, how do you go about raising funds for the expensive equipment?

Well we could have gone for sponsorship or government grants, but we would
have got bogged in red tape and ads.  Instead we grew dollars with
some fully excellent benefit gigs, a tape catalog (available online
http://www.cat.org.au/catalog/catalog.htm) and membership donations.

Well we're using computers so there's gonna be heaps of technical
problems.  It sometimes seems a bit slow because we are learning as we go
and teaching at the same time.  In the end it's more imporatnt to keep it
sustainable this way than to do lotsa flashy techno gimmicks.

-Finally, how can people get in contact with you or get involved?

Visit our web site www.cat.org.au, email us on cat@cat.org.au, ring us up
on Sydney 9519 9194, get your modem to dial Sydney 9557 7043, call in on
to any of our Tuesday night meetings at the back of Black Rose Books at
8pm, or come along and check out the site when the shop is open -- at 583a
King St Newtown, Sydney.  Post us on PO Box 13 Enmore NSW 2042.

Or build your own thing and if you want some help from us just let us
know, and when you've finished please tell us how you got there.  DIY!

- Also do you have the adresses of any cool anarchist bookshops
interstate, I know off the one in Brunswick, Melbourne but could not
remember its title, and we are going to compile a list of cool bookshops
so if you can think of any others it would be cool for us to add them to
our list,

See the anet site on www.anarki.net for address of Black Rose Books,
Barricade in Melbourne, and other cool infoshops.

..the catalyst collective..

 









