junk2.txt

Cord Chopper revealed.

I was walking the dog this morning, and noticed that The Junk had taken it
upon itself to persuade its owners to extrude it onto the kerbsides of my
suburb. Another generation of broken, inanimate objects had finally
persuaded its captors to free it, and be freed of it. All generations pay
a price for their freedom, and this one was no exception, mostly fractured
into chunks for easier transport out onto the roadside.

I am sure that certain caches of captive junk remotely manipulating the
brains of those people in local governments who are in a position to mass
produce the leaflets, which, when distributed across the district, render
the homedwellers more susceptible to acting upon the pleas for release
originating from their own personal stashes of junk. The Junk wears down
the resolve of its accumulators, gradually rendering them aware that in
much the same way as the gaolers are ultimately under the control of, and
dependant upon their prisoners, hoarders are ultimately controlled by what
they hoarde. They become storage managers of one kind or another. We're
all prisoners, but some of us can luxuriate, safely deluded in our power
to choose our gaolers. Too much stuff, not enough time.

The Junk was fresh. No condensation from the previous night, because this
was a sunday, the day which is held to ransom by family members wanting it
allocated to the emancipation of their junk. 

The junk around here exhibited the bizarrely purposeful assemblage typical
of people who, in a well-groomed suburb, try to discard messy, half-broken
things in such a way as makes them look neat and tidy. It hadn't the look
of scattering and dispersion usual to junk which has been rummaged and
sifted. The usual halo of doll's heads and unravelling audio tapes and
expired film cannisters, nor the more prognostic items like baling twine,
torn-open boxes and packing tape, hadn't appeared around these neatly
stacked piles of newspapers and freshly severed foliage. Aesthetics serve
a deeper purpose in many people than I admit to detecting in myself, but
then I'm the sort of person who thinks lawns are a fundamentally silly
waste of good gardening space.

The first score appeared the moment the dog and I emerged from Kyle
Williams Reserve. It was in a box, upside down, hidden under a plastic bag
full of grass clippings, but the power cord gave it away its presence,
provoking the search. The item was a Marantz SD3020 tape deck with, it
claims, a super hard metal alloy head. The stop-eject button was slightly
bent, but bent enough to render it stuck. An easy fix, I thought, as I
scooped it up under one arm. Marantz makes electronic goods notorious
amongst repair techs, primarily because techs hardly ever see them. The
legendary 200 watt amplifier from the 3020 series would be an awesome
find, not as good as a Krell Class-A, but a fine item nonetheless. I can
dream.

The second score appeared on the way up the hill on the route home. It was
obscured behind a large mountain of bleeding sap and timber which was once
a Frangipanni tree. It computer beside it caught my interest. Not because
the computer was likely to be any good, I thought from fifty metres away,
spotting a 1990 cowling even at that distance, but because someone had
probably flung out the monitor too. The VGA standard was in place by then,
so the chances were good I'd find a worthwhile display.

Sure enough I did. And, it still had its signal cable, unmolested. Someone
had placed tape over the screen, but it wasn't broken. I placed the tape
deck on the grass, put the monitor atop it and hefted them off to the
oldie's place, dog in tow.

My arms hurt by the time I arrived. Of course both electronic items worked
perfectly. So I went out for another look in some nearby streets I had not
scanned on the initial trip.

I found a dish drying rack, which I need at the squat. The next thing I
found was an old black and white TV. With a missing power cord, cut off
adjacent to the chassis. Hmmm...  further up the street I spotted him.
Without looking at him for more than a second I had pre-emptively tagged
him as an idiot. Anyone can get good wire cutters for almost nothing, and
they last almost forever. Only an idiot uses gardening shears to cut
wire, which is what he was using. It ruins the shears.

An quad ten-inch-driver PYE subwoofer in its antique French-polished case
from something like the 1950s lay on the grass, its lid was off, its guts
was mangled and a pile of severed wire had been dropped beside it.

This wire was once in the subwoofer. Then I spotted a VGA signal cable in
the pile. Immediately adjacent to it was another monitor, with no cord.
If cordchopper existed, I was right on their tail. 

He was a bit further along the pile, bent over it, rummaging through a
bunch of rusting garden furniture, garden clippers in hand. I approached
him and spoke to his back.

"Ahhh... so you'd be the mysterious cord-chopper, would you?"

He turned around. He had brown eyes, a two-day growth of grey stubble, a
double chin, and a big port-wine stain on one side of his neck. He'd be in
his sixties, I think.

He wasn't much of a talker. 

"Yep".

I asked "So, you're reclaiming the metal are ya..."

"Yep."

"Are you the guy who goes all around this suburb and cuts off the cords
from the computer monitors?"

"Yep."


I filled him in with a rant which had been brewing for months.

"I live near here and I go around looking for VGA monitors, and before you
started cutting the cords off, I could usually get about six working ones
per cleanup. I make about fifty bucks per, or I give them free to
organisations which need them. Now they're all missing the signal cables.
I'm quite happy for you to take all the mains cords you like, or take the
whole monitors, but I'd really prefer it if you left the signal cables
alone. You're wrecking perfectly good equipment."

I picked up the severed chunk of it from the ground and showed it to him.

"Look at this stuff here in cross-section" I said, showing him the cut
end, "where you cut the cable. It looks nice and thick but it's mostly
full of plastic. See?" I said, peeling back the outer layer, and
unravelling the braid to show the polyethylene dielectric. 

"If copper's your go, you want the mains stuff, the radiator piping, house
plumbing, the armatures out of broken electric mowers and pool filter
pumps and..." I smashed off the back casing of the monitor he'd rendered
useless,  "... and deflection coils off the back of the CRT. Look here" I
said, pointing at the heatsinks and transformers. "... more metal. All of
this assumes the monitor doesn't work in the first place. The signal
cable is not worth the effort."

A sort of glazed look entered his eyes, like the look on a chap who has
been in prison for so long he doesn't know what to do when the slammer
gate is finally opened.

"That's how I make a quid."

No, he doesn't. Despite what he thinks. That's what he said, but I think
he's doing it for other reasons. Like, he's fucked in the head.

"Well, yeah, ok, per weight, perhaps. A signal cable must be worth about
ten cents for scrap metal. Probably less since there's three metals,
aluminium in the shielding, copper and nickel in the cores and sync lines.  
The whole monitor weighs ten kilos and you can move it for fifty or sixty
bucks, so it's worth five or six bucks a kilo, or four to five grand per
ton, right? What's copper worth, two thousand bucks a ton? And you're not
getting that anyway, 'cos the dudes you sell it to have to strip the
plastic off it then melt it into ingots, and they take their cut for that.
Taking the whole monitor is a much better proposition and it doesn't waste
the rest of the monitor. Even if it doesn't work you can strip all the
metal out of it. People take the CRTs for the lead in the glass, but I
dunno what leadded-glass cullet goes for.

I can tell he's got his filters up. Someone's telling him how to make more
money for less effort, and it still isn't getting in.

"Where'dya live, anyway?" 


"Kurnell"


Hmmm... he drives a four cylinder car from Kurnell, to pick up probably
less than 5 kilos of copper and then drives it back. The money he spends
on petrol wouldn't covered by the value of the copper he gets from
here. The value of what he destroys here is at least a hundred the worth
of what he takes away with him. 

I'm reminded of the Bugs Bunny cartoon where the rabbit hitches a ride on
a huge, freshly felled tree, into a toothpick factory, and jumps off the
log just in time to see it grasped by a huge mechanical arm, chucked up in
a lathe and turned down into a single toothpick.


I saw him wander over to a car and throw the couple-of-metres of cable
taken from the 'woofer into the liftback boot.

He drives a car, a red Laser. RVQ-something, so it's not more than ten
years old. Fuck, it dawned on me... this individual probably posesses a
license to drive, too. What does this say about the sort of screening
process the RTA uses to keep idiots off the road? Internal subprocesses
made rapid internal adjustments to my road-risk co-efficient matrix. 


Cord-chopper drives all the way up from Kurnell to come here and render
worthless a piece of equipment worth between fifty and a hundred dollars,
by removing from it a chunk of three-core coaxial wire with maybe two
grams of copper in it, badly contaminated with nickel plating, aluminium
shielding and polyvinylchloride. This is less metal than he'd get out of
the goddamned chassis, which is invariably dotted with anodised aluminium
heatsinks, copper-laden transformer windings and of course there's always
the degaussing coils and the deflection yokes, rich in the tawny metal.
I know. I've seen the inside of hundreds.

This dude fits my definition of a fuckwit very well. The sort of person
who would slaughter an elephant and then take only its tail. Who'd piss
on a banquet so nobody else could eat it.

Maybe he's related to that dude who accumulates broken aerials in the next
suburb along.


I keep walking and find some nice firewood, old fenceposts chopped into
lengths. I slide them into my pack. My legs heat up as I walk with them
in my pack.


v0.1







