File: katmins07_2002.txt
Content: The Catalyst minutes 1 July 2002
Who: giffo, static, len, leia, david, safari, hugh, predator, chris, andy


Last minutes:

Hasslebot - thanks JJ
Mekanarchy router ADSL project
Catskills courses
Conway outages
New members
Analog
sudo for JA 
paypal
attachments to list emails

Present items:

-----------

Mekanarchy. The router/hub we donated is now going, and mekanarchy is
using it. It's remotely accessible and is at mekanarchy.dyndns.org. Last
time <pred> was down there Dillon (whose name the DSL account is in) asked
if we would also contribute to the rental of the DSL link. If the package
they're on (which is not yet totally clear) is a capped free 1Gb per
month, plus $70 a month rental, then this is probably a reasonable thing
even if we pay half of it, $35 a month is pretty good even if we do end up
paying for excess megs (and how, exactly do we determine which megabyte is
excess)? I'm a bit dirty on this being sprung on us now... I'd reckon it
would be so much nicer if the people cutting the deals knew the pitfalls
and knew the tech a bit better (maybe it's my failure not to tell
them?) or at least advertised the offer to pay half the rent FIRST before
the techies march down there and do the work under incorrect assumptions.

I got involved in starting the whole DSL router project rolling, in part
*because* it'd get the connection rental monkey off our backs - we provide
a router/hub/ethernet cable/expertise, they provide a link, we track and
pay for the megs we use. This seems a fair deal to me, since, by providing
them with all that stuff, installing it, configuring the box, maintaining
it, we're saving them a MONSTER load of kash and a PILE of headaches.
Why pay people money for the privelage of making _their_ lives easier -
doing it free is already hard enough.

ACTION : Pred and hugh are yet to deal with this but will do it over email
to dillon and ToniConspiracy.

ACTION:Pred's gonna watch andy install the IP accounting and DHCP config.

We're currently on approx $100 a month with the modems up this end... the
june telstra rental was $217.78.

The ultimate plan is:  no phone lines here, IMC on ADSL, dialup users dial
conway or treehug Do we need a backup phone line (DSL has been known to go
down for a weekend)? Yeah. So we won't dice it yet.. though it'd be good
to dial conway directly and get telstra lag out of the loop.

ACTION: Andy and Pred and Gif and anyone else re-set dialin to occur 
into conway, Friday 10am at TWS! 

----------
conway
Finally, uptime is increasing! ATX power supply non-start design fault
issue fixed. Post crach fsck auto-YES installed. Flaky new UPS out of the
loop, fixed. Cable for UPS reprogramming is in-process.
TWS key access is still a no but that's ok.

-------------
Communityweb: is on the 20th and the 21st in the Victoria Rooms a the QVB.
15 people are registered to do it. It's $60 for the whole weekend
including lunch. Webbies from all over the place are coming to this.
Meeting at the venue Wednesday 3rd top floor QVB south side
The registration form has just been put up too (sorry, no URL).

----------
Bandwidth
Chris has discovered he's organising a mirror for us. Our constraint is we
have half a gig of disk space on Simon Rumble's half-gig for free mirror
offer and need to figure out *which* things we need to mirror. Some things
need deleting, some need trimming or compression, or archiving. We're not
just taking everything on reflect and dumping it somewhere
else. 

ACTION: JJ is interested in helping chris to determine what historical
stuff should be kept, archived, etc.

Analog is at a point now where you can actually compare month to month,
say between may and june whereas it was broken before Chris fixed it (go
Chris!). Aotearoa.indymedia created a considerable bandwidth surge (about
$12 a month) but we're ok to carry that and should just ask them to pay
for it with some fundraising ... ACTION: Leah's gonna do that...
stallman.indymedia.org is getting pretty full and there's a tendancy now
to try and spread the load.

The next stage (once we know what 500Mb we're mirroring) is to set up the
mirror. 

ACTION: chris is not responsible for the new mirror 8-) 
ACTION: thurs night 4th June: mirror-able directory clean up night!
ACTION: put active_databases somewhere cheaper than conway 

Cat has always been user-donates. Is there some way we can track per-meg
what people's sites use? Should we raise the initial joining fee? How do
we make it clear to people that if their site gets popular they'll have to
donate more? JJ's changed the wording on the donations page. 

We pay for a box in at TWS, and what we're paying for is, effectively,
autonomy and colocation.

Alpha are concerned that our outgoing megs are vastly more than our
incoming ones (they make money off the incoming ones) and is eating a lot
of their pipe.  Once the mirror is going, it'll be a lot easier for them.


-------------
IMP

Imp is dodgy (folder disappears, slug mumbled something about SMTP) and
the form's not working and if anyone wants to work on it, rip in.
Squirrelmail on pink (another full web based client) works but pink's not
on the stable version of debian whereas conway is. There are issues
arising from multiple people working on the mail process and they'll be
thrashed out in the background by people working on it.

List administration : thrash, thrash. People are dealing with it, passing
responsibility around.



--------------
$buckaroonies$

TWS has got a new accountant who actually does real accountancy. Liam at
alpha promised to giffo and I that TWS would have bandwidth at 16.5 cents
a meg months ago and his accountant needs to talk to the TWS accountant to
sort this stuff out. Oh and the nice government charges us Get Screwed
Tax, the bastards, and we have to pay that too, it seems, which helps them
to do publically-spirited things like bomb people we've never met in
countries we've never been to - and we owe TWS for that GST since we
haven't been paying it. The Treasurer and giffo and Leah will have a bit
of a chat and get this crap sorted out.

JJ mentions he and Andy are doing a small piece of web work under cat's
auspices and getting donated .5grand for that, and cam_little from
eco_living is also coughing a chunk of donate-kash to cat. Virtual
Palestine want to dump in a donation too 'cos they so love the maint that
andy did for them (again under cat auspices). Makes you all warm and
fuzzy.

-----------
workshops

We've had some and we're having more (on the 14th, Linux Intro and Web
Portals).

Is it sustainable to do workshops ? Will we run out of candidates? Let's
not schedule them for a long weekend 8-)

Also : how to get around the problem of no-shows?

The catskills resources page is now different and needs to be made more
prominent so people can teach themselves stuff.

Some workshops had so few people that it was hardly worth doing. Maybe the
promotion was done differently for some workshops and that's why some were
well attended and others were not so well attended.

Maybe on active we should put a link saying "join the workshop list"?

ACTION: Savanna reports back on her experience administrating the workshop
        logistics,
ACTION: ask for another volunteer to administer 
ACTION: Hugh is going reactivate the workshop list
ACTION: all people who run courses will commit to getting their docos online
ACTION: first line on email-outs is "Let us know if you have any requests"


-------------------
Workshops coming:

ACTION: 17,18 August : Giffo's PHP course, Leah HTML, pred's hardware,
JJ's keen to do audio, Andy wanted to do Flash (needs license unless we
use trial versions).
 
Chris raises the important point that it's better to get people to use the
free stuff since it improves the rate at which the software is developed.
Giffo mentions he has a book called "The Windows Addict's Guide To Linux"
8-) Course proposal: moving from windows to linux? using gimp on linux?

ACTION: word goes out to the list: anyone wanna run an into javascript course?

-----------------


--------
Laptops
A nice Pent120 is working (with my 3Gb) now. Donated to Chris for on-load
use. Has debian on it. Others can probably be coaxed to work. 

-----------
Mailman
ANdy's getting the RFC-mandated human-readable email. He' sick of reading
it. Anyone else want to read it? 

------
paypal
JJ has a membership, will start trialling it's behaviour. The main issue
is privacy - keeping people's credit cards on our relatively open system
is a pretty difficult thing to do. 

------------
Spamassassin
Chris has gone as far as he wants to go with it and finds it works. Thinks
there's one little glitch. It's installed, but not in a systemwide manner.
The heuristics can be tweaked so that anything that looks faintly like
spam can be deleted, or only extreme industrial-strength spam is stopped
and only faintly-spamlike stuff is let through. OR everything is let
through but stuff which spamassassin thinks is spam is prominently titled
SPAM and you can delete it.

PROPOSAL: from giffo re member-only lists.
- we get spamassassin put on the list-owner
- spamassassin puts a --SPAM-- label on stuff then people can see'n'delete

ACTION: Andy's gonna have a go installing it on webkids. He said the spam
will be routed to /dev/null but it'd really be better that we kept a log
of it so we can see what it's chucking out.


-----
sudo
Two people were proposed to have sudo. kellan (boston indymedia) is known
by hugh and andy in meatspace.  Moz has been recommended too. 
ACTION: giffo will add them to the /etc/sudoers list.
Leah's also wondering about getting sudo, for a project being done by
WomenInBlack. Since some of the WIB people have a history of causing
accidental damage with sudo... maybe they should do it on pink.cat
... hence I just made leah a shell account there.

-------------
ping on ollie
pingthing was doing something bad so andy commented it all out.
If we find a really reliable machine that'd be great.

-----------
attachments 
Someone said something about these but I missed it totally.


---------
black mac
Len got a spare Mac, donated to cat/imc. Apparently it works. It's a 5500,
250MHz Performa. Good for image stuff, etc.  FOE wants to put in a bit for
it. HUGH proposes that Len finds a PCI card, we split the RAM and have two
similarly equipped machines. No, the MacSE really isn't useful even if it 
boots faster than anything in the room except the light air conditioner,
and IMAO a nice screensaver is not a reason to run a machine all day. 


-----------
newbies
Errr.... see the entry for attachments. it's only 11:30 pm 8-(

--------------
active.melbourne's DNS has conked out because they havent updated their
domain entry (it lapsed). Andy proposed that we redirect them temporarily
to melbourne.indymedia.org

LATE NEWS
----------
.org.au domains now auto-lapse in two years, stupid registration fee
payable to auDA. This means we have to pay for what used to be free for
the .au domain. First payment in two years from now. Fuck ICANN and the
government for this impost on the people who can least afford it. Send
anti-org.au-fee snail-mail to Senator Richard Alston, and whoever else you
think cares. Remember k Rob Elz did all this .org.au stuff for free for
years... one guy and a pentium-II. 


-----------
Next meeting mon 5 aug 7:30pm



My apologia for any omissions, insanity or outright unspeakables.


<predator>
