From siologen242@hotmail.com Sun Jun 23 16:33:29 2002
Date: Fri, 14 Jun 2002 17:44:27 +1000
From: jim alston <siologen242@hotmail.com>
Reply-To: cave_clan@yahoogroups.com
To: cave_clan@yahoogroups.com
Subject: (C/C) Location doc for Mutiny(known)


----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sydney Cave Clan Archive KNOWN (Places To Explore) DOC v10.01
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONTENTS

Sydney: Drains _drai
Structures _stru
Tunnels and Caves _tunn
Bridges _brid
Bunkers _bunk

DISCLAIMER
This document is intended for RECREATIONAL READING only.
Cave Clan takes no responsibility for persons/groups who take
offense, or find themselves coming to harm, injury or legal
difficulties due to the taking of instruction from this document.
Those wishing to take instruction from this document DO SO AT
THEIR OWN RISK! If you can't take responsibility for your own
actions, then don't take those actions. Cave Clan, and the
various contributors to this document, do not cover liabilities.
Otherwise please feel free to distribute this info.
Eat a Bowl!

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Description: This file contains the extended list of locations for
Sydney, as of May 6th 2002.

Please see the Gone Txt. for listings of demolished or reused/
refurbished locations that have been removed from this list.
See States txt. for abridged, shortened version of this list.

Author: Contributors: Diode, Predator, Ogre, Mr India, Siologen,
Trioxide, Howie, Magic, Stray, Maddog, Tyr, Wagonman, Dtrog
and The Lads.
Based on the original Known. Doc, compiled by Diode, in which
only the locations visited by Diode himself where recorded.
This version includes ALL Known Locations.
Compiled and Edited by Diode, Ogre and presently by Siologen,
Cave Clan Sydney

Thanks To: (In Chron. order)Dougo, Sloth, Woody, Wes, Rusco, Predator,
Diode, Mullet, Gobbledox, Howie and The Bunker Boyz, The Lads,
Prowler, Magic, Pied Viper, Mr India, Ogre, Siologen, Drac,
Wombat, Yoda, Trioxide, Dirge, Stray, Maddog, Hatchet, Striker,
Tyr, Assasin, Oriface, Dtrog, Fishie, Wagonman and anyone else
who found anything that is on, or should be on this here list.
Cave Clan are Go.

Sydways: Has been used because of the consistencies between editions,
eg, what is page 220 f16 in one edition will also be 220 f16 in
another.

Entry sections
--------------
Name: Official Cave Clan Name. (with Approximated length if a tunnel)
Other: Other Name.
Descrip: Brief Description.
Feat: Notable Features/Things to See.
Loc: Location, Suburb, Sydways Street Directory Page & Grid Co-ords.
Acc: How to Gain Access.
Exit: Other Ways Out.
Wet: Water Levels.
Photo: Photos Available. Somewhere.
Care: Cautions.
Hist: History.
Cond: Structural/Environmental Status.
Eek! Particularly Dodgy Features.
Todo: Things to be Accomplished in the future.
Now: Present Status.
Int: Ribina Berry Goodness Rating: Boring, Average, Good, Very Good,
Excellent. Replaced Diode's too analytical '1 to 10' rating.
Found: When the site was first found/or accessed, and who by.
This is as accurate as possible. Errors should be pointed out
to editor for correction in later editions. If you've got a
problem with that... too bad.
Future: What will happen later.
Note: Please read this.

****************************************************************************
* SYDNEY DRAINS **************************************************_drai*****
****************************************************************************

Name: (The) Abyss. 1.3km long
Descrip: Your average drain, just happens to exit at top of 30m high
cliff.
Pity the drain is only 5'10"H.
Feat: Sudden absence of floor. Nice Litter traps.
Care: Not a drain to skate board in.
Loc: [Sydway 36 N18]North Cremorne.
Acc: Over fence at cliff edge on Grafton St, opposite Fall St.
Exit: Via grill on side 6' round pipe. Off Warringa Rd.
Wet: No
Int: Average
Found: 1993 Diode


Name: Acer Bats.
Descrip: Fairly short 6-7ft RCP drain running under Acer, in North
Ryde, plus rectangular extension under M2 motorway.
Feat: Room, small water fall; Bats; Bends; Churn blocks at
downstream end.
Loc: North Ryde. 235 G15
Acc: Best way to get in is through "the overkill overflow". Enter
the Acer car park and head towards the north west corner, near
Christie Rd M2 Overpass. Looking down at the M2 you should
eventually find what seems to be an overflow channel which
goes underneath some parts of the carpark, and actualy flows
into Acer Bats. RCP has several sharp bends, and cute lil' bats fly
at you from their hidey-holes in the top of the RCP.
Exit: Way you came (May be possible to get out upstream end if
hardcore.
Wet: Wet at entrance, dry otherwise. Use pieces of wood left from
construction to make temporary bridge when entering.
Int: Average
Found: 1999 Trioxide


Name: Amaroo.
Descrip: 6' round, some interesting changes, longish.
Feat: Take the 7 foot pipe to its illogical extreme. Not very long,
nor particularly interesting.
Loc: Amaroo Reserve off Henry Lawson Drive. Georges Hall
[Sydways 292 F17]
Acc: W end of Marden St, corner with Amaroo Avenue.Is in adjacent
park, drains into creek.
Exit: Probable exits for those keen enough to pop concrete slabs atop
gutter boxes.
Int: Average
Found: 1994 Diode


Name: Another.
Descrip: 5'6" Round drain. Not explored very far.
Feat: None at present.
Loc: Western point off same bay as Pete's drain. [Sydway 334 P9].
Int: Boring
Found: 1994 Diode


Name: Anzac 91. 700m long
Descrip: A brick canal, 7ft, with an underground junction to another
upstream feeder which shrinks to four foot brick twin. These
join and go downstream in a twinned6x6ft concrete square,
exiting in a canal near the Bexley Swimming Centre.
Loc: Under Bexley Golf Course [Sydway 315 C15]
Acc: Downstream of canal in Bexley Golf Club near corner of Croydon
Road and Louis Terrace, Bexley.
Exit: Grille
Photos: yes
Int: Average
Found: 1991 Dougo/Melb Clan


Name: Anzac 91 Folly. 250m long.
Descrip: 5'8 round pipe, fairly old with 8ft sandstone chamber and 7ft
covered canal entrance.
Loc: Upstream of Anzac 91, (easily mistaken for Anzac 91), under
Croydon Rd, between Barnards Ave & Louis St, Bexley [315 C15]
Acc: Walk down into Golf course from Croydon Rd.
Exit: Grille in Smiths Ave
Wet: No
Int: Average
Found: 1998 Mr India/Siologen


Name: Archibowl. 350m long.
Descrip: Covered canal drain, 6-8ft.
Feat: Reinforced entrance, old, perfectly rounded brick bowl section with
a roof constructed of many small brick arches, roots sticking thru.
Loc: Homebush. Sydways: 274 L16
Acc: Depending what kind of Street directory you have itll either be:
Ubd/Gregorys: Over fence, north side of Parramatta Rd, opp. SUBWAY
Lane.
Sydways: Over fence, north side of Parramatta Rd, opp. SELWYN Lane.
The Sydways is in fact wrong as the actual lane is called Subway,
according to its street sign.
Exit: Gets smaller after bowl, ends 200m later.
Wet: No.
Int: Average
Found: 1998 Hatchet


Name: Autobahn. 1.2km long.
Descrip: 7' round, provides drainage for M5. 1km long.
Feat: Grilles, mainly just a long tube.
Loc: Padstow, under M5. Sydways: 313 L11
Acc: North East end Bryant St Padstow. Empties into mangrove.
Exit: Possible to open well stuck grilles in M5.
Wet: Dry
Int: Average
Found: 1995 Diode


Name: Bankstown Cage. 450m long.
Descrip: Room in drain with panoramic foot level view of public square
through three-sided cage.
Feat: A funny overflow.
Loc: At base of Bankstown Civic Tower.
Acc: Into open drain next to rail line at Bankstown Station, via
parking lot off North terrace Sydway 313 J01. Head NWest into
drain, take all RH turns. (East leads to Wormhole). Longish 7-8ft
high drain.
Exit: Ends after further longish 1M high drain.
Phot: Yes.
Wet: No
Int: Good
Found: 1992 Diode


Name: (The) Basin
Descrip: Large stormwater basin beside rail line Nth of Sydenham
station
Feat: Short but interesting 9' high rectangular drain at NE corner.
Three rectangular drains stacked vertically at Western corner.
Bottom two about 5'6", very long, not explored to ends.
Top one about 4', not explored at all.
The bottom one has little flow, may possibly go to area now
drained by newer 'Rocktop' drain. So may deadend?
Middle one has side tunnel with dive-room.
Loc: Sydenham, Sydways: 074 L07
Acc: Along lane next to rail line, or via 'Three pits' canal.
Care: Do not attempt after heavy rain, Basin is over 4 storeys deep.
Wet: Usually only knee, below pumphouse.
Int: Average
Found: 1991 Predator


Name: (The) Bat Cave. 500m long.
Descrip: Drain under industrial area, 10ft throughout
Feat: BIIGG DRAIN!, small weir, side pipe, shitloads of Bats
Cond: Good, minor plant growth in second section on floor.
Loc: Sydway 238 M5 NW end of public pathway from Clearview Pl.
Acc: Walk to railing at end of path, jump over, go in.
Exit: Opens at intersection of Cross and Old Pittwater rd.
Wet: Ankle, knee in 12ft high section
Int: Good
Eek!: The noise Bats make (Eek!)
Found: 1996 Mr India


Name: Beads.
Descrip: Lots of shortish but varied drains, with intervening short
canal bits. An alternative way to get to 'Ghost train' drain.
Loc: Sydway 273 L15]. Lidcombe.
Acc: Canal from East St, near corner with Victoria St. (East).
Follow down.
Exit: Numerous.
Wet: Dry
Int: Good
Cond: Far upstream end is blocked by flood debris.
Found: 1993 Diode


Name: (The)Bishop. 300m long.
Descrip: Old tunnel that used to house the counterweight that allowed
Trams to safely travel up and down a steep section of Darling
St. Now a drain.
Feat: 15m long, 18 inch dia. access pipe, that has to be squirmed
thru to gain access to main tunnel, named "The Bishop" from the
scene in the film "Aliens" where the cyborg "Bishop" crawls
thru air con pipes to get to the satellite uplink that will
bring the ship down.
Also has rails and mini GPT.s, is 5'4ft max and 300m long.
Loc: Darling St, Balmain. Sydways:055 D12
Acc: In a small grassy enbankment at the end of Darling st, to the
north of the bus u-turn area there are two wrought iron doors
in the ground. Use manhole key, or fingers to open, climb down
into 9ft hi room, get down on belly and squirm thru the pipe
that heads on up Darling St.
Exit: Manhole at other end, six seg. In middle of intersection of
Darling and Nicholson Sts. Safe to use very late at night, but
only in emergency.
Care: Tunnel is now a drain and all gutter boxes on that part of
Darling st feed into it. Avoid rain, as 18inch pipe will not be
accessible. Very claustrophobic.
Photo: Yes. The Commercial Hotel at top of Darling St has historical
photos on display.
Wet: Yes, very, you get soaked while squirming through the pipe
Int: Very Good
Found: 1998 Siologen/Ogre


Name: Blackwattle Bay. 3.9km long.
Descrip: A truly wonderful, excellent drain. Shape and size changes,
weird junctions. Triple overflow, with 7ft redbrick side tunnels,
a very old 9ft high tub, and a 6ft sandstone arch section.
Feat: Many side tunnels, check out the Treasure room, 400m up the
main brick balloon branch. Very atmospheric, and mostly original
since 1870's.
Care: Entrance is covered at high tide. Plan expos using tide charts.
Sewage overflow affected.
Loc: Blackwattle Bay, Pyrmont to Chippendale.Sydways 055 C20
Acc: Twin 5'0 ft concrete outlet in East cnr of Blackwattle Bay,
near fish markets.
For those wishing to avoid the knee deep terd infested water at
the entrance, a grille entrance is located outside the council
depot gates on William Henry St, near Bay St (065 D2) and for
those only wanting to see the upstream end, a manhole N-E corner
of the intersection of Smail St and Blackwattle Ln(065 E04).
Exit: Once thru manhole(trimar) in cnr Shepherd and Rose Sts,
Chippendale, or via very heavy 8 seg. pizza outside Sydney
Uni's Engineering Library. Also thru 8 seg pizza in Blackwattle
lane.
Wet: Knee at low tide
Photos: Yup, some sent with complaint letter and map to the EPA.
Video footage done by UTS students.
Todo: Keep an eye out for Stinky the resident Rat
Now: Main sewer has been disconnected!
Int: Excellent
Found: 1994 Predator/Diode/Mullet


Name: Blacktown
Descrip: Starts at Richmond Road Blacktown just west of the
intersection with Curren Rd
A huge pipe that runs for a few hundred metres but ends in a
room that contains five 1m dia pipes that'd be a lot of
effort to explore, any super keen people?
Feat: Enormous diameter of final pipe
Loc: [Sydway 230 B9]
Acc: Clamber down to drain from Richmond Rd, which is west of Curran Rd.
Exit: Just go back to entrance
Wet: Shoe
Int: Average.
Found: 1999 Stray


Name: Blacktown Workers Club
Descrip: Starts opposite club with a low entrance (crawl) under road
but pipe increases in size and runs west beside the ovals
and carpark of the club rather short but has a few turns to
make it interesting. Ends where water has backed up the pipe
it's a little smelly as a result.
Feat: Turns and skylight in club carpark
Loc: [Sydway 250 F7]
Acc: Low entrance to Drain Opposite Workers Club, Reservoir Rd.
Exit: Possible through putrid water behind Carpark
Wet: Shin at exit - can stay dry otherwise
Int: Average
Found: 1999 Trioxide.


Name: Blub Blub.
Other: Bumborah Pt Water Cooling Tunnel
Descrip: Cooling water tunnel to Old Bunnerong Power Station
(demolished).
Feat: Major concrete installation on waterline just East of tidal
wave barrier near the Botany Bulk Liquids Storage area.Large
rooms (20' high, 40' wide) half full of seawater at sea
entrance. Massive grilles made of railway lines (for good
reason!).Three 6' dia shafts in perfect condition, about 30m
deep, no steps. Tunnel length about 1km by map. Diameter
unknown.
Care: DO NOT risk being sucked into tunnel by surges from swell. If
you lift shaft covers, MUST replace, or you'll kill someone, as
falling in is certain death. Covers are rectangular, concrete,
takes two people to lift. Beware dropping them in.
Cond: All completely under water, even at lowest tide. Tunnel
probably still in good condition for full length, but shaft at
power station end filled with rubble.
Loc: Sea exit installation: [Sydway 337 R5], Bumborah Point.
Two shaft covers in reserve behind Bumborah Point. Water at
bottom rises and falls with sea, causing air to whoosh thru
gaps in lid.
One shaft cover outside Bunnerong PowerStation fence (Military
Rd) opposite flower shop for cemetery. Water at bottom rising &
falling.
One shaft at site of old generator building, at base of
southern end of wall (cliff) below Bunnerong Power station
Switch building. This shaft full of rubble. Sound of water
moving.
Acc: Tunnel: When the seas dry up, or scuba when sea VERY still.
Can squeeze thru grill at sea exit, or thru cyclone fence gap
and drop 4m into room behind grill. Tunnel entrance under
water.
Side room: via large 7' by 5' grill, on western side of main
sea exit. Need crowbar to lift and slide it along. Ladder down
into room. Underwater tunnel 20m long joins to main sea exit,
where there is an underwater wooden grill.
Inside room is 2nd massive steel grill, no access, don't know
where room on other side goes.
Exit: None.
Phot: Not yet.
Wet: D(ive).
Int: ?
Todo: Lift manhole covers near power station end shaft.
Eek!: Shafts.
Found: 1992 Diode


Name: Brams Hatch. 500m long.
Descrip: Drain under Dee Why commercial centre
Feat: Access into "secure" area
Care: Upstream end opens out beneath large window VIS!
Cond: Side "twin" pipe crumbling.
Loc: Sydway 239 G5, up channel on S side of Richmond Ave
Acc: Walk up channel to drain
Exit: Opens at end behind PO
Wet: Ankle
Int: Average
Eek!: Roof dips to 4'9" for 10m
Found: 1997 Mr India


Name: Bronte. 250m long.
Descrip: 6' round drain, changes to rect. brick.
Feat: Old stone entrance.
Loc: [Sydway 78 P11]
Acc: Down steps from Murray St.
Exit: none.
Wet: No
Int: Average
Found: 1993 Diode


Name: Bronte #2. 300m long.
Descrip: Dead boring 6ft rec, that soon becomes 5'6, then splits to twin
4ft rounds.
Feat: Bugger all.
Loc: [Sydway 78 P11]
Acc: Northern corner of Bronte beach.
Exit: Opens
Wet: Ankle.
Int: Boring
Found: 1998 Siologen


Name: Busby's Bore. (Real Name)(Disused water supply tunnel)
Descrip: First underground tunnel in Australia. 3km water supply tunnel,
from swamps where Centennial Park is now, to Hyde park. Dug by
convicts. Large folder of info accumulated on this. Now only
a few people living who are known to have been in it.
Feat: Many vertical shafts, side tunnels, dives, bad air, later
additions. Construction was only monitored via word of mouth so
if convicts got bored digging the main tunnel, they would start
digging their own tunnel, therefore wasting the Civil Engineers
time and money.
Loc: [Sydway 66 P5] There is a monument in Centennial park near
Lang road entrance, with informative plaque.
Acc: Two manholes on Moore park Rd, either side of Driver Avenue, in
westbound lane near footpath. To see, need 'lane closed'
barricades, manhole key, strong lever and mallet.
To enter, need tanked air and wire ladder/rope, maybe scuba
gear.
Still trying for other access points.
Hist: More than any other tunnel in Australia!
Log: Attempts on:-
* Checked Moore park rd, Centennial park, cnr Oxford & Dowling
Sts, went on to do Fortress. Mullet & friend, Diode.
* Diode. Evening Hyde park (found manhole in flowerbed), up
Oxford St. Moore park rd-workmen pointed out manholes in road,
and mentioned access in Cricket ground car park. (Ha turkeys)
* 14/6/92 Diode, Mullet and friends. Evening. Opened manhole
in Hyde park: is DEEP shaft to sewer (Bondi?) (Is in Hyde Park
flowerbed opposite the old Police Headquarters Bldg). Search
rest of way to Centennial park: no luck. Found Centennial park
drain, went on to do Rushcutters Bay drain.
* 25/6/92 Diode, Mullet & JS. Manholes at Taylor Square and
Sydney Cricket Ground. Ambulance siren at Taylor Sq: Yikes!
Rained heavily.
* 8/7/92 Mullet & Diode. Success! Opened 2 manholes in Moore
Park Rd. Marked with yellow diodes on footpath near Driver
Avenue. Did not enter due to bad air (extinguished flame).
Bottoms full of water.
Int: ?
Wet: Very, but may be seasonal.
Care: Air in some/all sections is likely to be incompatible with
life.
Found: 1992 Diode/Mullet


Name: Candleroom. 1.2km long.
Other: Anzac '98
Descrip: A Canberra style Sydney Drain.
Feat: Twin 6ft rounds, 7ft high room w/ wood ceiling, grilled "canal"
sections, two small slides, 10ft high downstream entrance
Loc: Eastwood Sydways: 254N01
Acc: In Jim Walsh park, on Balaclava Rd.
Exit: Ends
Wet: Downstream entrance (exit) is ankle.
Int: Good
Found: 1998 Ogre/Mr India/Drac/Wombat


Name: Cannon. 800m long.
Descrip: Near dead straight 8ft Rcp, that slowly gets smaller over about 1km
Feat: Rooms, small waterfall.
Loc: Wakeley 290N01
Acc: From the end of Dyer Cl, go west into park to canal, the Cannon is
a side drain.
Exit: Various grilles.
Wet: Ankle at entrance, do the splits to avoid.
Int: Average
Found: 1998 Hatchet


Name: Cecilia. 300m long
Descrip: 7ft rec that becomes 5ft rcp.
Feat: Big gpt system just in from entrance, huge vertical grille.
Loc: Glenfeild. Approx 329-Q02
Acc: From the strip of Campbelltown Rd, between Glenfeild Rd and
the South Western Fwy turn N/W onto one of the unnamed roads
that go into an undeveloped residential area. Follow NW till
you reach an cross road. Follow the cross road S/W until you see
a fenced off driveway. Follow this to the drain.
Exit: None, just gets smaller.
Wet: Gpt, but is avoidable.
Int: Average
Todo: Check out other drain nearby.
Found: 2000 Trioxide


Name: Cecil Hills. 3.8km long.
Descrip: Fully in use water supply tunnel.
Very long 8ft brick arch tunnel that carries water to Prospect
Reservoir.
Feat: Plaque above upstream end states its 11436ft long. First
400m is 8ft brick and sandstone arch. Littered with Stalagite
clusters, turtles and frogs. Has backfilled access shaft in middle.
Vertical grille on upsteam end. Becomes 10ft brick and sandstone.
Loc: Abbotsbury to Cecil Park.
Acc: Either: Canal in Calmsley Hill City farm off Darling St,
Abbotsbury. 269G19
Or: Feild bash South East from near cnr of Elizabeth Dr & Duff
Rd, plate in top of grille is loose or off. 288 N07
Photo: Yes.
Wet: May at times be too full of water to walk through. Ankle otherwise.
Int: Very Good(mildly monotonous though)
Todo: Tunnel 100m down canal from north end. All other tunnels on this
canal.
Eek: Water marks 2ft from roof.
Found: 1999 Stray


Name: Centennial Park (#1).
Descrip: Drain, 5.5' round entrance, leading northish.
Feat: No change for a long way, then T's to a 4' high, 8' wide
rectangular form. One side dammed off and dry, (heading south
west? and down) with bends. Looks fairly old; where the hell
does this go?
Loc: [Sydway 76 Q12]
Acc: Cnr Dacey Av, Anzac Pde, Alison Rd, in centennial park.
Todo: Need a skate board or something to follow this without causing
thighs to explode.
Int: Boring
Found: 1992 Diode


Name: Centennial Park (#2).
Descrip: Drain, 4' high, 8' wide entrance, leading west.
Feat: Moths
Loc: [Sydway 67 A10]
Acc: Drains into Busby's Lake in centennial park. Near Lang rd
entrance.
Int: Boring
Diff: Backbreakingly low.
Found: 1992 Diode


Name: Centennial Park (#3).
Descrip: 5'6 rec drain with a huge 5ft deep GPT at its entrance
Feat: Walkways at side of drain, gives the illusion of being 10ft
high.
Loc: 067 F10
Acc: Outlet on west side of Centennial Park, near cnr of York Rd and
Queen's Park Road.
Exit: Bondi Junction Mall?
Wet: Boat
Int: Average
Found: 1997 Ogre


Name: Centennial Park (#4)
Other: The Net.
Descrip: Network of old and new drains under Queens Park. Mostly 4'
high, but plenty of standing spots.
Feat: Some sandstone walls, interesting tree root formations.
Occasional ducks who accompany explorers. Nice viewing window
of passing cars.
Loc: SE snr of Centennial Park. Sydways:077 G12
Acc: In canal, near cnr Musgrave Ave and Avoca St.
Exit: ?
Wet: Mostly dry, ankl near entrance.
Int: Boring
Found: 1997 Ogre


Name: Centennial Park (#5).
Descrip: Drain flowing out of Centennial Park, Towards Australian Golf
Course.
Feat: Starts as three 3ft squares, quickly changes to one 6ft round.
Changes to redbrick round, redbrick loaf then 5ft square twins.
Loc: West side of Centennial Park. 076 R13
Acc: In canal flowing out of lake, adjacent to Nth end of Alison Rd.
Exit: Ends under Roma St Kensington. Downstream is Eel Pit.
Int: Boring
Found: 1997 Ogre


Name: Charity Creek. 1.3km long.
Descrip: Good under-rail tunnel, short open creek, 7' rectangular (eels)
then 7' flattened round, 6' side rounds with lots of turns and
branches, waterfall in side drain, large chamber under Victoria
Rd at exit. Length about 800m.
Loc: Meadowbank, [Sydway 254 N14].
Acc: Bank St, 54/H7 near Meadowbank station, or car park of
Meadowbank TAFE. TAFE entrance is ankle deep. Lotsa eels.
Exit: Opening at chamber, next to petrol station on Victoria Rd.
Int: Very Good
Photos: Yes.
Note: Side tunnel in this leads to Soylent Green.
Found: 1990 Dougo/Melb Clan


Name: Cheesegrater. 300m long
Descrip: Huge (14ft) bifurcated drain.
Feat: Huge (again) structural support, in roof of large room.
Loc: Parramatta. Sydways: 253 C17
Acc: From McDonalds on Hassel St, near cnr with James Ruse Drive,
cross rd to Flag Motel, go down grassy section on eastern
side of motel grounds, follow until fence, over fence, into canal,
follow canal 100m d/s to drain.
Exit: Ends at Parramatta River.
Wet: Tidal, ankle at low tide.
Int: Good
Found: 1998 Mr India


Name: ChickenPox. 250m long.
Descrip: Massive inverse parabolic stormwater drain(15ft). Not very long
though.
Feat: Drain alternates between clear and turbulence-blocked sections.
Rather good graffiti can been seen at the south entrance. There
are two metal boxes at the top of the tunnel.
Care: No real hazards here fellas.
Cond: Structurally perfect (although substantially grafittied at both
ends).
Loc: Proceed down service road parallel to F3 (Hornsby-Newcastle)
Freeway. Service road is located at the corner of Burdett and
King streets, Hornsby. Proceed a few hundred metres down the
road. Sydways: 215 F04
The drain is located on the left hand side of the road, where
the road dips.
Acc: Could this be the easiest drain of all when it comes to
entering it? Climb down the rocks and walk in.
Exit: Either end, although the North end is much easier.
Phot: A few, scanned.
Wet: About 5mm of down the middle of the drain on a fine day, about
50mm on a wet day.
Int: Good
Now: No changes.
Todo: Have a party there....the only problem is that it's rather
close to houses. :(
Found: 1995 Pied Viper/4 Stooges


Name: Chimney. 150m long
Descrip: Short drain.
Feat: Unusual exit/entrance, 6ft.
Loc: Homebush. Sydways:274 B12
Acc: Twin grilles, north side of Parramatta Rd between Gallipoli St &
Bachell Ave. Behind fence, base of M4 enbankment.
Exit: Ends.
Wet: No.
Int: Average
Found: 1998 Hatchet


Name: Chlorinated
Descrip: Small network of RCP's
Feat: Not much
Loc: Baulkham Hills, NSW
Acc: Downstream entrance, on Windsor Road, opposite Roxborough Park Road
There are two sets of drains here. Chlorinated is the right
(eastern one).
Exit: Way you came, or grille in park (when not locked)
Wet: Slightly
Int: Average
Care: Smells like chlorine. There is a Public pool in the park which this
drain starts at.
Found: 1999 Trioxide


Name: The Chocolate Goldmine
Other: The Sump
Descrip: Disused (?) sewer releif tunnel.
Feat: Two disused(mostly) sewers. Access is via one of two deep shafts,
one being nearly 80m deep, with balconies and ladders to the
bottom,
the other, also with balconies etc is around 50m deep. At the
bottom of
these shafts is a 6ft rcp that leads to a large T shaped chamber,
with
ocean outlet tunnels to the east and the old main sewer tunnel
running
to the west. This tunnel is bowl shaped, 9ft high and leads to a
tall
vent shaft. Here it gets wetter and continues on straight a long
way
before reaching a second shaft with dodgy balconies and ladders.
Beyond this the air gets gassy and the water dirty. Huge roaring
sound ahead.
The "T" chamber also has balconies and a vent shaft.
Loc: Malabar. 338Q01
Acc: Of the two shafts, the eastern one is safer and the tunnel below it
more hospitable. Its located down the trail, east of where the old
wind
generator used to be. Follow the trail to a set of brick lean-to's,
sitting
near the cliff edge. West of these is old bunker building. There is
a manhole in the bushes to the north of this. Use a crowbar and
lever
the manhole up, utilising the wedge shaped crack in its collar.
The other shaft is higher and far more dodgy:
Manhole is right next to the Anzac Rifle Range Bunker tower. The
collar
sticks out of the ground and is smashed, so it can be pushed aside
to
allow access. Follow trail at the east end of Fishermans Rd.
Climb down manhole shaft, then down ladders.
Exit: Its advisable to open both manholes, using one shaft as an
emergency
exit.
Care: Do at low tide, as room fills up with seawater and main sewer is
unpassable
Ladders and balconies in West shaft are dodgy, as are piles of
rubble everywhere.
Ladders and balconies in east shaft are ok, however, the manhole
rungs are rusty.
Sewers seem to be disused, but be wary. Dont fall in water in
chamber.
You dont want to get sucked out to sea...
Bit terdy smelling.
Wet: Muddy at base of west shaft, use stepping stones. Both tunnels
become wet
due to debris blockages.
Todo: Explore both tunnels to their ends.
Cond: Very old, very unstable... just the way ya want it.
Int: Very Good.... scary.
Found: 2001 Hatchet/Fishy/Siologen/Trioxide/Maddog/Mr India


Name: Clippings.
Descrip: Two 200m lengths of 6' round drain, with 10m gap in middle.
Upstream entrance has backyard fences abutting, one of which has a
gate to allow the owner to dump his grass clippings in the canal.
Toss them back into the arsehole's yard!
Downstream section has bats.
Loc: Gymea, UBD 101/G10, cnr President Av & North West Arm rd. In
bushes.
Int: Boring
Found: 1997 Diode


Name: Clogged Clam. 1.1km long.
Descrip: A Covered canal drain.
Feat: 10ft entrance with black metal bracing on roof, lots of sand,
encrustations in their millions, big chamber under William St,
two 5'5 branches, graffiti from construction in 1950's.
Loc: Double Bay. SYDWAY [67 G2]
Acc: Most downstream drain on Kaiora St canal.
Photos: Yes at Lo and Hi tide
Exit: Opens at bay, also, exit via fence in chamber.
Wet: knee/tidal
Int: Good
Found: 1997 Siologen


Name: Coalcliff. 500m long.
Descrip: Large concrete arch drain, under mine tailings dump at
Coalcliff.
Feat: Huge, flat floored. Slopes, has two slides, one of which is
near 5m high. Entrance also has two 5' dia steel drain exits
next to it, but they are difficult to enter. One is very steep, the
other is just plain awkward to get into. Could be done with a G
clamp and rope.
Loc: Wollongong Gregory's 16 F3
Acc: Off Lawrence Hargrave Drive, at Coalcliff.
Wet: 1cm.
Int: Excellent
Found: 1993 Predator


Name: Cocaine.
Descrip: A drain?
Loc: Castle Hill, Sydways:212 F18
Acc: Look around in Cockayne Park.
Exit: Unknown.
Wet: Unknown.
Found: ?????


Name: Cockthorpe. 300m long.
Descrip: Long 6' round, no features. Changes to 5'6" round, not
explored.
Loc: [Sydway 273 J16] Lidcombe.
Acc: 50m up canal from upper end of Ghost Train. On right.
Exit: Via gutter grill near corner of Cockthorpe Rd & Water St.
Int: Boring
Wet: No
Found: 1993 Diode


Name: Colquhoun Park.
Descrip: 3x 5' round, parallel drains. Long echo.
Feat: ?
Loc: [Sydway 272 P10]
Acc: From canal in park.
Exit: ?
Todo: Follow. May get bigger if pipes join.
Int: Boring
Found: 1993 Diode


Name: Colyton Triplets
Descrip: 3 RCP's 4-5 foot high with side RCP's
Feat: Interesting Bunker style room.
Loc: Colyton - Cnr Great Western Hwy and Whitcroft Place.
227 P18
Acc: In park of Whitcroft Place - closest to footpath on GWH.
Exit: Not fully explored.
Care: Usual drain rubbish - needles etc
Wet: Some puddles
Int: Not Bad (5-6)
Found: 2001 Wagonman, Maddog, Drac


Name: Cook's River. 800m long.
Descrip: 8ft x 6ft rectangular feeding onto the cooks river. Becomes 8ft
round, then rises to 3ft, with twin 5ft'ers of to the right
that open out into a very old parallel spraycrete tonkin.
Feat: Interesting end
Loc: Campsie. Sydways: 295 E13
Acc: Sth side of Cook's River between Sixth Ave and Beamish St
Exit: Rather dodgy grille on cnr of Ninth Ave and Loch St, Campsie,
very near a roundabout.
Photo: Yes.
Wet: Waist at high tide; dry at low tide
Int: Good
Found: 1990 Dougo/Melb. Clan


Name: Crashout. 900m long.
Descrip: Drain with interesting room and two old drains beyond.
Feat: Crashout room
Care: Stay on eastern wall of exposed canal when entering drain.
Loc: Alexandria 075 G14
Acc: Canal in fire station grounds adjacent to cnr Wyndham Rd and
Bourke St. Walk upstream.
Photo: Yes.
Exit: Grille in factory car park off Joynton St Zetland.
This has been fuckt up. Try Webforge manhole in little tunnel
just before grille.
Wet: Knee
Int: Good
Found: 1991 Dougo/Rusco


Name: Croydon Ovuloid
Descrip: Sideways oviform drain Heading south from Hume Hwy, Croydon.
Feat: Not a very exciting drain. Turds seen in drain sum up the
experience.
Loc: Croydon, Sydways:295 G07
Acc: Jump fence into canal next to Caltex on Hume Hwy.
Exit: none?
Int: Boring
Found: 1997 Ogre/Mr India


Name: CXIV. 1.2km long.
Descrip: Large covered canal, 10ft high, 12m wide, with 8ft side branch,
shrinks to 2x 6ft rcps after 450m.
Feat: Hardcore structural support, big enough to have drag races in.
Loc: Merrylands (272,J04)
Acc: Upstream of Windowville, on south side of McFarlane St,
near cnr with Pitt St, look for the big Spotlight sign.
Exit: Main drain shrinks to 4ft after the Pillar Junction, side tunnel
ends after 200m into a canal with a 3ft tonkin to the right and 50m
onward the canal is covered again by a 200m long 12ft high and very
badly built concrete cap. This shrinks to 4ft then opens again
after 20m
Photos: Yes
Care: Watch out for smackies.
Int: Good
Found: 1998 Siologen


Name: Cycleway. 800m long.
Descrip: Big drain that stays big its entire length.
Feat: Long 8ft rec, Big slide, more 8ft rec, various rooms, 8ft rcp.
Drive yer car/bike thru it using access ramp at entrance!
Loc: Cherrybrook.213 F15
Acc: Cnr Highgate Pl and Woodgrove Rd.
Exit: Ends at Clifton Ave.
Wet: Water marks suggest that at times it may be knee, dry at
present.
Photo: Yes.
Int: Very Good
Found: 1998 Trioxide


Name: Darling Harbour. 4.4km long.
Other: Hay St Drain, Lackey St Drain, Chinatown Drain
Descrip: Very old drain with some new sections, flowing from Central
Station to Darling Harbour.
Feat: Lotsa atmosphere. Convict built sections, many side tunnels,
balloon and arch shaped, some with old lights from construction,
stalagtites, wrought iron sections, slides, watersprays, gpts,
covered canal sections down overflow, huge roof grilles.
Sydneys oldest and most extensive drain system
Loc: Manhole: Sydways:028 J04, Grille: 027 G02, Harbour: 025 F20
Acc: Trimar, on North-East corner of Eddie Ave and Elizabeth St,
Sydney.
Head downstream from here or hinged Grille under Monorail
station on Quay St, near cnr of Darling Dr.
Exit: Two exits are available. The first is a 3ft side pipe U/S from
where the main tunnel splits. This will take you to a safe exit
under Haymarket mono-rail station. The second is the big one,
requiring the use of a lilo or inflatable boat to float out
into Darling Harbour. Beware the very tight security here who
don't like people swimming in the harbour. The tunnel exits
under the wharf. There are actually five tunnels entering the
harbour here.
The Easternmost one is the Darling Harbour overflow, the next
two are the main Darling Harbour twins. The next tunnel heading
west is The Sydney Tunnel, and the westernmost tunnel
(around corner from centre three) is Sydney Tunnel overflow.
Care: Not surprisingly, this drain becomes a raging torrent
during rain. Take care when entering, keep an eye out for security,
police etc.
Photos: Yes, flash and time exposure.
Wet: This drain is TIDAL. 5ft deep, Take a lilo. Or do the drain to the
Mono-rail grille, ankle.
Int: Excellent
Found: 1991 Dougo/Predator/Diode/Mullet
Now: Quay St grille is currently welded shut.


Name: Deep Throat. Orig: 1.1km long. Now: 500m long
Descrip: Originally: "Bloody long monotonous, low drain. Starts with
100m 6'4" rectangular, changes to flattened round (looks like
a throat?) 5'6" high. Goes on forever. I know this finally emerges
as a 4'oval in Darval Park, but don't know where the change(s) are,
or if any chambers under West Ryde shopping centre.".
Now, shorter as most of it has been diverted into the Eternity
Drain.
Feat: Absolutely none, unless you like 5'6" high oval drains.
Loc: [Sydway 254 L14]
Acc: Corner of Constitution Rd and Federal Rd. Or at the top of the
waterfall in Eternity.
Exit: Via gutter grill near Dunmore St
Phot: Yes.
Todo: Enter at Dunmore, follow all way up till change. Bicycle?
Pred: I have done the entire system and the only thing of interest is
a grille in the footpath in Gaza road. Nice view of the
girlies!
Int: Boring
Found: 1992 Predator


Name: Debris. 450m long.
Descrip: Drain, with varied sections, all clogged with rubbish and
rubble.
Feat: Brick horseshoe sections, two 40' high chambers, swimming pool,
television, misaligned and cracked rcp sections. 200m of crawling
up a dry side pipe see's you in a room with a dirt roof, weird!
Loc: Dulwich Hill. 295 R16
Acc: Upstream(downstream is 1924 drain)running under rail embankment
on Ewart St near Ewart Lane.
Photo: Yes
Exit: In Hercules St Reserve, ends.
Wet: One section, the swimming pool, is over knee deep, full of Eels
Int: Good
Found: Siologen/Dirge


Name: DiodeDox. 1.2km long.
Descrip: Drain running along under brand new expressway.
8'H rect. entrance. Downstream of this is Mulletdox.
Feat: Churn blocks at entrance, rooms, side round pipes (some
sloping), various grill exits in expressway median areas and
nearby.
Cond: Brand shiny new. (In 1993)
Loc: [Sydway 35 B13] Artarmon.
Acc: Park in Punch Rd, through wire fence, under Fwy via 5'5" round
drain. DiodeDox is upstream. Wade through knee deep water at
churn blocks to entrance.
Exit: Several grills.
Phot: Y
Wet: Knees at entrance, also floor is flat, so wet shoes.
Int: Good
Found: 1993 Diode


Name: Driveway.
Descrip: A 1K, 5' round drain. One room, some smaller branches near
head.
Loc: [Sydway 293 B15] Near Yagoona/Bankstown.
Acc: "Drainage reserve" between Farah Pl and Diffey St, off Hume
hwy.
Exit: Dual triangular grilles in front driveway of house #80, The
Avenue.
Wet: No
Int: Boring
Found: 1993 Diode


Name: D.T.R.T. 300m long.
Other: Do The Right Thing.
Descrip: 5'8ft round drain with big litter trap in room and 9ft high
natural rock slide, that becomes a loaf then a 5'8 ft red
brick, then a 5 m crawl section finishing with The Sydney Stairway.
Feat: Dangerous old lady.
Loc: Waverton. SYDWAY [45 F5]
Acc: On the Eastern shore of Waverton Park.
Exit: Grille to the front yard of old lady, she gets cranky, but her
property has no fence, so you just tell her that you thought
the grille was in the park
Photos: Yes.
Wet: dry
Int: Very Good
Care: Slide is very slippery and steep, old lady.
Found: 1997 Siologen


Name: Duck River.
Descrip: A pathetic set of drains. #1 has a promising entrance, but is a
worthless, shitty little round drain.
#2 and #3 are old and new parallel rectangular, about 6' but
shortish. The 'old' one has an interesting 'anti-mini-racers'
mega grill on the upstream end.
Loc: [Sydway 293 A8] Cnr of Munro & Helen St. Goes under Munro St.
Int: Boring
Found: 1989 Melbourne Clan. First Drain found in Sydney by Cave Clan


Name: Eel Pit. 1.2km long.
Descrip: An rectangular concrete thing, ranging from 5'8-7ft. Twin,
wide.
Feat: Lotsa eels and ducks, some pillars and a big room in
middle, skylight grilles.
Loc: Kingsford. 315 P03
Acc: Cnr Isaac-Smith St and Gardeners Rd. Get in thru Golf course
carpark.
Wet: 6' at all times.
Exit: Ends
Int: Good
Found: 1996 Predator


Name: Enfield. 600m long.
Descrip: Drain under industrial complex followed by another under Enfield
Marshalling Yards, Greenacre.
Feat: The first Drain has a 7ft d/s entrance that is flooded, lots of
Swallow nests. Second drain has a large grille room in its centre.
Loc: South Strathfeild. Sydways 294 F14
Acc: Enter canal from West side of Marshalling yards, cnr of
Sylvanus St and Drone St. Second entrance is on the marshalling
yards side of Wentworth St.
Exit: Ends
Wet: Ankle
Care: Serious sewage overflow.
Int: Average
Found: 1996 Predator


Name: Ephemeris
Descrip: A 5-6ft drain.
Feat: 12ft hallway section running 100m under shopping Centre, lit at
either end by massive grilles. Which are lit by carparks outside
Strange side tunnel halfway up a wall.
Bulging wall section.
Loc: Warringah. 238 p13
Acc: On Pittwater Rd, 20m west along from Extension entrance.
Exit: Thru grilles.
Wet: Big section is ankle deep.
Int: Good
Found: 2000 Mr India



Name: Eternity. 2.2km long.
Other: Meadowbank Drain (original name)
Descrip: Big drain that runs from Meadowbank park to East Denison....a
long way.
Feat: 12ft rock blasted horseshoe shaped arch tunnel that becomes a
10ft loaf shaped tunnel. Has a big room at shape change that has
the original drain entering from above forming a waterfall over the
continuation of the main tunnel. Further up there is a gpt with
an 8ft dia dropshaft above it. Drain ends in a tall shaft. New
section
added, Big chamber at the end of a 100m long fibreglass pipe that
runs off the first gpt.
Also connects to Kinder Surprise drain and replaces Deep Throat.
Loc: Meadowbank
Acc: 1. Outlet on east side of Deep Throat Canal near bridge, down
drive from Constitution Rd near tennis crts. 254 L15
2. Grille into the pillars room, in the section of Meadowbank
park opp. Mons Ave. Is padlocked, see Syd CC for key. 254 L14
3. Grille in middle of road West Pde 50m south of intersection
of West Pde and Miriam rd.254M08
4. To get to the top of the waterfall: Gutter grill in carpark
off Betts St. Grille has "owned" tagged on it(?) 254 M10
Exit: As above.
Wet: Floor uneven, ankle most of way, knee in gpt, tidal also,
dry at low tide. Second shaft has lots of water gushing in.
Int: Excellent
Found: 1998 Predator/Diode/Wombat
Now: A year later, the CDS unit has stuffed up, rendering the first
200m of the big horseshoe tunnel shin deep in muddy water.


Name: Everville
Descrip: Short lake overflow.
Feat: Massive grille room, 20m X 15m.
Churn blocks, 6ft tunnels running off this.
Grilled off lake end.
Loc: Regentville.
Acc: From bend in walk past shed to huge grille next to
the M4. Either lift most right hand grille, or do a bishop
thru pipe from smaller grille to the left.
Exit: Thru downstream drains, to other side of M4.
Wet: No
Cond: Loadsa crappy graff.
Int: Boring.
Found: 2000 Hatchet
Note: This drain was found by accident, in a region not shown
on aquired street directories, so until further, the location
is unknown.


Name: Extension. 1.3km long.
Other: Batcave Extension (original name)
Descrip: Drain under Warringah Mall, 6' - 6'3 throughout except for
small 5' section, and 8ft chamber.
Feat: Has 12 side tunnels incl. 100m L x 30ft W x 8ft hi chamber with
pillars, very old section at the end of one of the branches.
Star Chamber section: Once in the first big room from the
Condamine Rd end, head up the 4ft rcp to the far left.
200m up you come to a room, from there, go 100m up the
low left tunnel. Is Good!
Care: Builders still working on upstream end and security guards
patrol mall at night.
Hist: Built under mall when first conceived, has been modified over
the years to cope with the larger buildings built on top.
Cond: good, minor graff in overflow tunnels.
Loc: Sydway 238 P13 NW Corner of Golf Course
Acc: Climb over white railing just down from Condamine and Pittwater
Rd intersection on Condamine St into top of Golf Course. Drain
starts under railing.
Exit: A few GBG in green and dale streets, upstream end opens into
new building work [is being extended NW towards Bat Cave]
From Star Chamber, at very beginning climb up onto hovel under
mall, squeeze out under stairs, next to big otto bin.
Phot: No
Wet: Ankle with dry overflow pipes
Int: Very Good
Eek!: broken glass in entrance.
Found: 1995 Mr India


Name: Eyes. 700m long
Descrip: Pleasant 9ft pipe in Bass Hill.
Feat: Size, rooms, branches, and waterfalls. As well as nice little
optical illusion.
Loc: Bass Hill 292 K09
Acc: North end of creek in Carysfield Park. Off Liverpool Rd
Exit: No exit downstream unless you want to swim the 9ft deep pool.
Exit grille in first upstream room, into petrol Station.
Photos: Yes.
Int: Very Good
Found: 1995 Diode/Predator


Name: The Fallen Tree. 300m long.
Descrip: 5ft tub drain running up from underneath Woolloomooloo Finger
Wharf.
Feat: Accompanying map showed this drain branching off in all
directions with four major branches going as far as Taylor
Square. As it turns out two of the branches are bricked up and
one is very wide but very low. The main tunnel shrinks to 3ft
after about 250m.
Loc: Woolloomooloo Bay. 056 P17
Acc: Under Finger wharf.
Wet: Tidal, ankle to knee.
Exit: None.
Int: Boring
Found: 1998 Predator/Siologen


Name: Fat Tulip. 500m long.
Descrip: Covered canal drain.
Feat: Fairly large, changes in shape, roof made of bricks and plaster,
skylight grilles, a huge curtain of roots dangling thru sections
about 500m long.
Loc: Mascot. Approx. 318 A17
Acc: Details hazy... Jump in canal from near corner of Perry St and
Denison.
Walk upstream 200m from here until you reach drain.
Exit: Ends
Wet: Large flow down centre, 2m wide, ankle.
Todo: Follow branch canal/drain that is grilled off, thru to industrial
estates.
Int: Good
Found: 1998 Siologen


Name: The Fence. 350m long.
Descrip: Huge Chamber-esque drain, 350m long, 25m wide, 14ft hi, fenced off
at edges of canal inside actual drain.
Loc: Under Flemington Markets 274 H15
Acc: South side of Parramatta Rd, opp Bedford Rd.
Exit: Comes out on other side of markets.
Wet: No.
Int: Good
Found: 1998 Hatchet


Name: Fishy's First
Descrip: 8ft rcp drain.
Feat: Not very long, has one big m/h room, then a very big grille room
at upstream end.
Loc: Bardwell Park 315-K06
Acc: From Slade Rd, walk north across Slade Rd Reserve, climb down
into canal, follow canal d/s for 200m, drain is on left side of
canal.
Exit: Unless you climb out grille, back the way.
Wet: No
Todo: Pray that one day they'll put a cap on the canal u/s of this
drains outlet, its fucking gargantuan!
Int: Good
Found: 2001 Fishy


Name: Flytrap.
Descrip: Crappy 5'6" round, only one known entry/exit (in middle).
Downstream end is a half submerged 'flap' door in bay at 54/K8
on Parramatta River. Goes under old ATL factory (abandoned) off
Nancarrow Av, but no access.
Loc: [Sydway 254 Q16]
Acc: Grill in Ann Thorn Park, off Constitution Rd.
Exit: None.
Int: Boring
Todo: Try to forget.
Care: Has a sewage problem.
Found: 1992 ???


Name: Formwork. 1.4km long.
Descrip: 6ft rcp, goes long way, various rooms.
Feat: Formwork still stuck to roofs, unusual "improvised" grille
on floor, looks flimsy but is sturdy.
Loc: West Merrylands Sydways 271 Q02
Acc: In Reserve between Yanco St and Leeton St
Exit: Many grilles.
Wet: Dry
Int: Average
Found: 1998 Siologen


Name: {The} Fortress. 2.4km long.
Descrip: Huge, long, DEEP drain.
Feat: Ocean entrance, 45 degree slide w/rope, very high chambers
with balconies, length, size, side slide with steps, drop pipe
entries, calcite formations, stone roof, etc. Go in from a
grill at high tide with big waves. The waves slamming into the
sea end make a sound like nuclear bombs going off, shock waves
blasting up tunnel, etc. Very spectacular
Loc: Maroubra.
Acc: 1. Down path to sea from Waterside Ave, Lurline Bay
(Maroubra).Need low tide & calm sea. 318 N08
2. Gutter grill at NE corner of Garden and Gale St Maroubra.
This is a bit tight for 1M, then drops 1M into room with 20cm
deep water (unavoidable). 318 F08
3. Six segment pizza manhole (painted red) in gutter, West end
of Keating St, Maroubra. 318 G07
4. Six segment pizza in concrete slab, next to Gatics, in
Quarry Res., off Moverly Rd, Maroubra. 318 J07
5. Six segment pizza on se cnr of roundabout on Moverly &
Cooper, Maroubra. 318 H7
Phot: Yes, many.
Wet: Lurline Bay: Dry at low tide and calm seas, otherwise forget
it.
Gutter grill at Cnr Garden and Gale St: Shin deep
Dryest drain in Sydney otherwise.
Int: Excellent
Todo: Explore past dive room, also past grill in army field.
Found: 1992 Predator


Name: The Get Into The Big day Out For Free Drain
Other: G.I.T.B.O.F.F.
Descrip: Crappy 4-3ft rcp drain that will save you $90 odd when you
go to the Big Day Out(or any other event held in the Homebush
Showgrounds for that matter).
Feat: Who gives a shit... Ok, a few gpts, cds units, grilles. Best
feature is the grille that gets you out onto the main concourse
at BDO!
Loc: Homebush
Acc: Grille in behind bushes on sth side of 100m along from
intersection with .
To get into Showgrounds: Once inside, follow left rcp. At first
and second splits take left. Follow for 300m, over cds ramp,
over gpt until you reach the grille room where pipe goes
from 3ft to 18 inches dia. Lift left side of grille. Climb out.
Run!
Exit: Provided above ^.
Care: You may get busted emerging from grille.
Wet: Nope.
Int: Boring as a drain. Excellent as a way of getting in for free.
Found: 2002 Millsy/Trax/Trioxide.


Name: The Get Into The Big day Out For Free Drain #2
Other: G.I.T.B.O.F.F.: Hardcore Version
Descrip: The Hardcore way into The Big Day Out.
Feat: None.
Loc: Homebush.
Acc: + How To Get Into Showgrounds
Go thru same entrance grille as for Gitboff #1.
Take right most Rcp. Follow this till you reach a grille room,
beyond which the tunnel is too small (look for removed litter
rack). Lift grille(Is Heavy). Jump out. Run!
Exit: Above ^.
Care: You may get busted by gaurds with dogs.
Wet: Yes... Tunnel is very small.
Int: Boring as drains go. Good as access to Bdo goes.
Found: 2000 Ogre/Dirge



Name: Ghost Train. 400m long.
Descrip: Short but HUGE drain, two changes. From downstream end: Twin
5'6" rect (short), arched roof on wide canal, with tension bars
across at 5'6" height (the ghost train section), then the huge
bit, which is about 10' high by 25' wide (very new).
Feat: Lots of stuff hanging off the bars, hence the name.
Loc: [Sydway 273 L15] Lidcombe.
Acc: Canal in Wyatt Park. Under Church St and rail line, take RH
pair of twin 5'6' drains. (LH drain is one of the "Beads"
drains above.)
Exit: Ends.
Todo: Check upstream end of canal near Kerrs Rd.
Pred says... I checked this drain in 1991 before the new bit was added.
The locals have a habit of going into the grill bit where all
the dry flotsam hangs off the bars, pouring fuel on it and
setting it alight. Yee Har, excitement plus!
Int: Average
Found: 1991 Predator


Name: Gobbledox. 1.35 km long.
Other: Willoughby Leasure Centre Drain, Gobledox's Tomb (original Melb.
Name.)
Descrip: Mega Huge drain. 12ft-15ft
Feat: Size. Side slide with vertical shaft. Waterfall from 1.3m round
drain entry near ceiling. Numerous colourful monstrous
formations, water sprays from leaks. Various side branches
Loc: [Sydway 35 E13] Naremburn
Acc: there are actually 2 entrances
1): Where Olympia Rd dead ends at the Gore hill fwy, walk 100 m
east to where canal goes under Willoughby Rd. 035 F13
2): the big one!. From Willoughby Leisure centre walk e along
small St, into Munro park, head along the northern edge towards
NE corner near end of Pyalla St [no access to pyalla though]
and a distinct track can be found. this track winds down the
northern side of creek towards Northbridge bridge. After 500 -
600 m it reaches the creek bed and you double back to
the west along the creek [which is wide with solid rock bottom].
035 H13
Photos: Yes.
Exit: both ends.
Wet: 5mm deep everywhere, Nowhere to sit down. In room at end of
branch 2, floor dry, however to get there you wade through knee
deep water.
Int: Very Good
Found: 1991 Gobledox/Gilligan/Critt


Name: The Goonies
Other: Diamond Bay Sewer Outfall
Descrip: This is in the drain list cos thats what it is, however, unless you
are insane, you would'nt dare enter the actual tunnel, which is
above a 40 m drop, 2ft in dia and spewing shit into the ocean.
Feat: What makes it worthwhile, is how you get to it: you climb down
steps cut into solid clifface. These stop and become a bridge,
made of drift wood and two telephone poles, that go, 15m
over a 40m drop onto rocks. The other side has a few more
steps then a plank which leads to a ledge with a sewer viewing
shaft and a drop shaft into the ocean.
Hist: Is the Diamond Bay sewer releif outfall.
Care: Your insane to try it on anything other than a very dry, calm day.
Ogre and Maddog did it while it was raining.
Loc: Diamond Bay, Vaucluse Sydways: 059 E15
Acc: Head north down east side of apartments in kink of Kimberley St.
Look out for a lone standing arch near the edge of the cliff.
Go through this.
Exit: Back the way you came.
Eek!: All the way...
Int: Very good
Found: 1999 Maddog


Name: Gorgie Mills. 600m long.
Descrip: Old Balloon shaped drain. Known to the waterboard as the oldest
inner western storm drain.
Feat: Old sandstone arch tunnel at the end of a short crawl, double
decker tunnel, big fuckin Gpt, blocked off side tunnels, tis old.
Loc: Summer Hill. 063 A09
Acc: Jump in Canal from Longport St, where railway passes under, walk
upstream Through underpass and Gorgie Mills is on the right.
Otherwise, follow instructions for Hawthorne System.
Exit: None
Eek!: Bit Terdy
Int: Average
Found: 2000 Hatchet


Name: Gravel Socks. 800m long.
Descrip: 6 parallel drains, each 7' high by 8' wide, with regular
connecting openings. About 600m long. See also Gobbledox and
DiodeDox
Feat: Tidal for most of length. Gravel on floor (under water) gets in
your shoes, hence name. Discovered while looking for Gobbledox.
Big Eels.
Loc: Entrance just east of 'Suspension Bridge' on Strathallan Av.
Other end opens to Long Bay (Middle Harbour). May be under
water.
Acc: Park in 'The Boulevard' Sydway 36 K15, steps down to park at cnr
with Miller St, down thru bush around pylons of Suspension
Bridge to bottom.
Exit: Don't know about Long Bay end, got too deep.
Phot: Yes.
Wet: Ankle at entrance, Knee half way.
Int: Average
Found: 1992 Diode/Mullet


Name: Greendale Creek. 250m long.
Descrip: Drain room under industrial area, 10' square room accessible by
6' rcp's
Feat: Cool room with large balcony and roof entrance plus 4 pipes
Care: next to cement works VIS
Hist: none
Cond: good, does collect flood trash though
Loc: Sydway 239 C11, Next to 188 Harbord rd
Acc: Jump into canal on Harbord road, walk upstream.
Exit: Grill in roof of room
Wet: Ankle in canal and pipe, dry in room.
Int: Average
Todo: Photo, explore 4'3 pipes
Eek!: Fumes sometimes are rather solvent based.
Found: 1996 Mr India


Name: Grilled Egg. 1km long.
Descrip: Long Drain, various forms inc. twin 5'7 conc rec, 6ft conc rec,
6ft egg, 5ft round and 5'5ft rec.
Loc: Kingsford. Sydways: 317 Q04
Acc: Open section opp. Cook Ave on Issac-Smith rd.
Exit: Grille 1: Jaques St Kingsford. Grille 2: Byrd Ave, Dacyville
Wet: No
Todo: Check out nearby drain in Astrolabe Park.
Int: Boring
Found: 1997 Siologen


Name: Guildford Park.
Descrip: 2x Rect drains at south end of canal in Guildford Park. 6'
High.
Feat: LH branch opens briefly in pit with wire cage above. RH branch
goes under rail line/bridge.
Loc: [Sydway 272 H10]
Acc: Off Marian St.
Exit: Ends.
Found: 1992 Diode


Name: Gutter Seat.
Descrip: Crappy drain, with exception of spot where you can sit with
your head in a gutter 'window'. Shine torches at cars, see
people stare!
Loc: [Sydway 313 H2]
Acc: Nth West corner of Memorial Park, Bankstown. Take round drain,
the smaller rectangular drain joins up again. Ends at rail
bridge over Marion St.
Wet: No
Int: Boring
Found: 1993 Diode


Name: Hassall St. 300m long.
Descrip: 8'H tub shaped drain.
Feat: None, except the usual Predator marks. Big, fairly long.
Loc: [Sydway 80 Q17] Parramatta.
Acc: Near corner Station and Parkes Sts. Park in Hassall St.
Exit: Ends
Int: Average
Found: 1991 Predator


Name: Hatchets. 150m long.
Descrip: Short 8ft hallway drain.
Feat: Slide at upstream end.
Loc: Ashfeild 295 I01
Acc: On east side of Iron Cove Canal, off Parramatta Rd,
opp Mcdonalds
Exit: Other end.
Wet: No
Photos: Yeup
Int: Average
Found: 1999 Hatchet


Name: Havyatts. 600m long.
Descrip: Essentially, Rocktop's little brother, 8 ft concrete sections,
with 9-15 ft rock sections, half Rocktop, half concrete, 500m
long
Feat: Satanic graf, a 40 year old concrete smoother.
Loc: Double Bay. Sydways: 067 G03
Acc: Downstream from Vault Drain, side drain to Kaiora St canal,
Double bay
Photos: Yes.
Exit: Opens down at bay, 50m away from Clogged Clam exit.
Wet: Tidal, groin (and yes its cold) at high tide,
knee/ankle at low tide
Int: Very Good
Found: 1997 Siologen


Name: Hawkers Folly. 450m long.
Descrip: Drain. Impressive 7' entrance, soon gets lower. Branches after
30 metres. Right branch ends in bush after another 130 metres.
Left branch goes to interesting waterfall with a dodgy ladder.
Loc: [Sydway 36 R17] Willoughby Bay.
Acc: Sea wall at Little Wonga St.
Wet: Ankle
Photo: Yes.
Int: Average
Todo: Get up the second waterfall, no ladder or stepirons.
Found: 1992 Paul Hawker/Predator/Diode


Name: Hawthorne System
Descrip: Series of short drains along the Hawthorne canal.
Feat: 9ft round semi-brick tunnels that get smaller as the canal
heads south.
Two old 12ft arch drains that have been blocked off and now
support a high pressure pipe that passes over main canal.
Acc: Enter canal from Sth side of Parramatta Rd, Lewisham. The
underneath of the bridge here is quite impressive, though it
has been coloured by the spray cans of homie types. Head south
from here towards the ancient rail bridges. 063 B07
Exit: Various open sections that can be used as exits. Canal
eventually splits at the end to three 4ft pipes, at Hoskin's
Park, Dulwich Hill.
Wet: Dry
Int: Average
Todo: Break down blocked section of arches and find out what lies
beyond.
Found: 1997 Ogre


Name: Hell.
Descrip: Long small "Hardcore Mission" drain under Industrial area 4'
rcp
Feat: just being able to do it and survive :)
Care: Fumes sometimes
Loc: Sydway 239 B9, gbg E side of Victor rd, opp S driveway from
carpark behind club. Brookvale
Acc: Pop grate and jump in, then head S [downstream]
Exit: GBG in West St, Manhole in footpath on S side of Winbourne Rd
Wet: Minimal
Int: Boring
Todo: Complete drain, [we bailed at manhole] see if it links up with
Greendale Ck 4'er
Eek!: Squeeze under Pittwater Rd
Diff: Very low.
Found: 1997 Mr India


Name: Hercules' Pillars. 1.1km long.
Descrip: Fantastic, astounding, mind bending! More features in one drain
than any other! Nuclear powered! Faster than the speed of
light!
Well anyway, its better than most (all?) Sydney drains.
Feat: The most impressive entrance yet (the pillars). This must have
been designed by some reincarnated Nazi architect.
Three entrances in all. The drain is a "Y" shape.
Nine major waterfalls.
Forms: 9' square, 14'rec, 9'H by 1'6"W side branch, twin 6'6"
rectangular, 5'H by 6'W (side branch).
Rooms: One per waterfall, the largest is huge, about 26' high.
Ladders: Waterfalls have rungs beside falls, the largest
(the 'ladder room') has a ladder up between twin falls.
Slides: At the pillars, and also quite sloppy at the junction.
And:- The main tunnel (rectangular) BANKS into the curves! This
does interesting things to your sense of balance.
March 94: Lots of bats (Miniopteris Australis) and newly
installed leachate conduit. This is armour plated in the big
room.
Care: Absolutely don't go in here if it looks like rain. The water is
post industrial, with a dash of 'old tip'..
Loc: Maquarie Park. 255 N2
Acc: The Pillars are just upstream from the old stone 'Porters Ck
Bridge' on Riverside Drive in Lane Cove River Park. This park
gets locked up at 7.30 though, and anyway, you should see the
Pillars by daylight.
Most accessible entrance is off Wicks Rd, jump in bushes opp.
Plant Nursery, next to M2. Or jump fence just north of M2 overpass
on west side of Wicks Rd.
Exit: Ends.
Phot: Yes
Wet: The Pillars entrance is shin deep. May be dry if pond drain
pipe is not blocked.
Int: Excellent
Found: 1993 Diode


Name: Hereford Hell Hole
Descrip: Short, small 5' round drain going under Town Houses.
Loc: Glebe, Nth side of Hereford Estate, Hereford St. Grill in
street parking bays. Sydways: 064 Q02
Exit: Two exits, south exit is inside underground car park of
Hereford estate. North exit is a tight square shrinking
tunnel that passes under Harold Park Raceway and out
Johnstons Creek Canal, near skate ramp..
Wet: knee
Int: Boring
Found: 1997 Ogre


Name: Humming.
Descrip: Rectangular, 8' for 200m, then rect 5' for another 200m, then
splits to smaller (unexplored) rects, one still 5'.
Named for hum from sub-station.
Loc: UBD 97/B9 Oatley.
Int: Boring
Acc: Behind electricity sub-station at cnr Gungah Bay Rd, Roberts Av.
Found: Early March 95, Diode & Mullet.


Name: Jigging
Descrip: Mainly uninteresting group of tubes.
Loc: Picnic Point. 333 A01
Acc: Behind school, Shari Ave.
Int: Boring
Found: 1995 Predator


Name: Kingsford Smith.
Descrip: Access to old sewage/water works in SE corner of airport, via
drain.
Feat: Ruin, that may be remnants of early Syd water supply, built
when Tank Stream got too polluted. Supposedly, a canal/pipe was
put between Syd and what is now the Mill Pond swamp/sewage
pit. Old airframe, junked. Vent tower with tree growing out of
top.
Care: Airport security. It has been known for a helicopter to take
off and hover about the area after someone walked along the
perimeter fence, then disappeared near the area of the drain.
Loc: [Sydway 317 C11]
Acc: From East side of General Holmes Drive, under it via drain, to
gap between road and airport fence. Hole in fence where drain
empties, crawl to cover of large concrete pipes, then follow
them in.
Pred says: Since the installation of the turd runway the security has
tightened. I gather the fence has been repaired. Incidentally
most the old swamp on the east (runway) side has gone.
Recent (Aug 95) conversations with a water board CC operative
reveal that the place is still active, has large twin
centrifugal pumps and a smelly, wet-wall sewer collection pit.
Found: 1992 Diode/Predator


Name Kmart. 1.5km long.
Descrip: Feature packed drain. Full of shopping trolleys, all sorts of
junk from a smash repair yard, a mass of scaffolding still in
place from work on roof (forgotten?), pillars, dead-end side
drains, skylight grilles, a tree, tonnes of rubbish and
stagnant water.
More trash than a K-mart store
Entrance is twin 9' high x 10' wide, on E side of rail line.
Loc: Fairfield, [Sydway 291 L1], between railway line and Fairlight
Av.
Exit: Short 5ft branch out to canal next to Kennys Lawnmower Shop on
Hamilton St. Grille up side tunnel, comes out on cnr Barbra &
Harris Sts
Photos: Yes.
Todo: Marvel at the copious amounts of trash.
Wet: Stagnent patches, ankle.
Int: Very Good
Found: 1994 Predator


Name: Lavender bay. 200m long.
Descrip: Short but interesting drain.(Has been extended, Oct 97) Massive
litter trap in room. Long slide. Unfortunately, its only 4ft
diameter the whole length.
Loc: [Sydway 46 J7]
Acc: In sea wall just to E of jetty in Lavender bay (near railline).
Photos: Yes.
Wet: Tidal entrance.
Int: Average
Found: 1992 Diode


Name: Lindsay's Grille
Descrip: Floodway with grilles that open into a long, low tunnel
running north-south under the reserve. Was pointed out to me by
one Lindsay, a resident of the parts.
Feat: The big grates? The sludge?
Care: Better to do it at night. Too many people around during the
day. Also the sludge seems pretty vile. Keep your body out of
it if you can.
Cond: Seems all pretty new. Looks like someone might have been down
there before or maybe the workers were writing things up.
Loc: Dunrossil Pk, Epping [Sydway 233 R15]
Acc: There are two big grilles with two access grilles next to
them. The one on the north side of the park is probably better.
Exit: Back the way you came as far as we know. Have been told there
is an exit somewhere in someone's backyard.
Wet: A little bit. The water wasn't moving. There was a veil of
smelly sludge on the ground. About half a cm to 1cm.
Int: Boring - might get better further on.
Todo: find out where it continues on to. Get an electric dinky.
Found: 1997 ????


Name: (The) Loaf. 400m long.
Other: Johnstons Ck Drain
Descrip: 9ft drain on Johnson's Ck. Side drain with Arched roof on rect
passage.
Loc: [Sydway 64 N5]
Acc: Via Cardigan Pl. off Cardigan St. Entrance to drain at Sth
side Parramatta Rd. Follow drain(high brick U shape) Nth. Loaf
is side drain on Right.
Feat: Shape changes. Red brick, large chamber under P'matta Rd
If you've got graffiti, do it here.
Exit: Loaf: Grille exit to Horden Pl 250m up the second junction.
Johnstons Ck: ends
Int: Good
Now: 400m of the canal d/s of this drain is Sydneys Premier graff
art gallery, 700 odd peices by the best graff artists.
Found: 1991 Melb. Clan


Name: Logans Run. 500m long.
Descrip: 5ft rcp that dips and rises and bends and turns and has a few
big grille rooms.
Loc: West Pennant Hills Sydways: 213 L19
Acc: Behind West Pennant Hills Sports Club, New Line Rd
Exit: For those not 5ft rcp inclined, follow directions on wall to
gutter grille exit halfway.
Wet: Entrance is clogged but useful as stepping stonage.
Int: Average
Found: 1998 Trioxide


Name: Love Handle. 300m long.
Descrip: 5ft rcp.
Feat: A 30m long 6ft section in the middle!
Loc: Epping 234H17
Acc: South end of Baronia Park.
Wet: Dry.
Int: Boring
Found: 1998 Trioxide


Name Lover's. 1.3km long.
Descrip: Several changes. Entrance 2x5'H rect, then 1x6'H rect, room,
2x6' round, rejoins, 3x5'6" round, 2 rejoin, 5' round, the
rubble room. Has exits via small side tunnels to gutter grills
at #3 Lilian Crescent, and at cnr of Sherwood and Bransgrove Rd
(in Bransgr. at Eastern side of Sherwood). One of the 3x5'6"
branches not explored.
Loc: [Sydway 313 D16] Revesby
Acc: Via park off Montgommery Av.
Int: average
Found: 1993 Diode


Name: Macquarie. 400m long.
Descrip: Three big but short parallel rectangular drains. 9' high.
Goes under the Macquarie shopping centre.
Feat: None worth mentioning.
Loc: [Sydway 235 H18]
Acc: From Waterloo Rd, opposite Macquarie centre.
Exit: Lower end access is via knee deep duckpond.
Int: Average
Found: 1993 Diode


Name: Magic's Linear Accelerator. 2.4km long.
Descrip: Uncertain. Either a sewage overflow or a stormwater drain.
Feat: Kinda like a mine. It's got a concrete bottom (reminiscent of
the floor of Fortress, only MUCH narrower). For the most part,
the top and sides were carved out of the Sandstone, no
spraycrete. In some sections, a concrete cap exists, supported
by (!) mine-style timbers. In some sections the timbers have
rotted a bit and the concrete cap has fallen a bit. Straws
(again, like Fortress) hang from the concrete sections. In
short, one might go so far as to say that it's a scaled-down
Fortress without the cool rooms.
Care: Replace the bricks over the entrance hole when you're finished.
Cond: As stated previously, some of the concrete caps have fallen a
bit (get ready to crawl here). :)
Loc: Located down the road from ChickenPox. Go down the road until
it turns into a fire-trail. There's a lot of decrepit junk down
this trail...car parts, shopping trolleys, a fridge, an oven,
and even a supermarket laser barcode scanner! Eventually you'll
come to a kind of clearing, with real long grass on the left.
Leave the trail here, and turn left again. Head for the bushes
to the South and go through them. There's a bunch of settling
tanks which reek of sewage. Sydways: 215F03
Acc: Through a hole smashed in a concrete wall a few metres East of
the settling tanks. The hole's a bit of a squeeze.
Exit: I think one exists right down the other end (about a kilometre)
in Ku-Ring-Gai Chase National Park. Manhole.
Phot: Yes, of both the entrance, as well as inside. The entrance
photo is of poor quality (due to the fact that they were taken
in early evening).
Wet: Between 5mm and 10mm throughout. Somtimes floods.
Int: Very Good
Now: No changes.
Found: 1996 Magic


Name: Manly Non. Including Seaview.
Descrip: Two "don't bother" drains off Manly beach.
Loc: [Sydway 259 F3]
Acc: Drain to sea from Manly lagoon: grills on some concrete pillars
on beach are removable. Two adjacent 6' tunnels, one full of
sand, the other with 2' of water in it. Sometimes waist deep if
tidal doors are shut.
Seaview drain: Previously known only by the two barred openings
at the base of the promenade wall near Carlton St. Two round
manholes in footpath above - lifted these. Small room, tiny
drains: 2' dia.
Int: Boring
Found: 1994 Predator/Diode


Name: Marion St.
Descrip: Plain tiny drains, only explored for bunker thirst.
Loc: Alison Av: [Sydway 292 Q20]
Acc: Via gutter grill in Allison Av. West side of street, near E cnr
with Caloola St. Grill is hinged and moves easily. 5'6" here.
About 1Km
to:- Inside Bankstown Airport fence at cnr Birch & Allingham
St.
Exit: None upstream.
Todo: Go downstream to airport exit, which is 3x5' rounds, to canal.
Canal must become drain in airport.
Found: 1995 Diode/Predator


Name: Marion Twins.
Descrip: Drain running under Marion St Leichhardt.
Acc: 6ft round entering Hawthorne canal, near Marion St bridge. Soon
splits into two 5ft rounds.063 B05
Exit: None as yet.
Wet: 1"
Int: Boring
Found: 1997 Siologen


Name: The Maw. 300m long.
Descrip: Drain with a very spectacular entrance
Feat: 12ft hallway shaped entrance, grilled roof, and 5ft waterfall.
Loc: East Fairfeild 272 E19
Acc: In the eastern end of Knight park, about 150m north of Fairfeild
St up Donald St on the left
Wet: Gpt at beginning, poss. shin deep.
Photos: yes
Int: Good
Found: 1999 Hatchet


Name: Midnight Express. 1.3km long.
Descrip: Long rcp, 5ft, 7ft, room, 6ft bifurcated with overflow windows.
Followed by a 10m open section, then three 5'5 rcps that enter
a big room, then turn into 2 x 6ft rcps.
Feat: Not unlike a Canberra Drain.
Loc: Greystanes. 271 E03
Acc: In large nature strip/park, north side of Maquarie Rd, 100m west
of Dahlia St roundabout.
Exit: Emerges next to the downstream end of Penitentiary Drain, near
Britton and Long Sts.
Wet: No.
Int: Average.
Found: 1998 Siologen


Name: Milson Park. 800m long.
Descrip: Long and ancient drain dimensions vary from 7'high by 2' to 4'
sqr and 7' sqr. Also joined to the rock bored drainage tunnel for
the Harbour Tunnel (Wakt Tunnel)
Feat: Variation! Contains 21 shape and construction changes, chamber in
roof, waterfall, slide, massive entrance (new), big CDS unit
periodic [pulsing] flow, [small wave down drain 1 inch high
every 15-20 mins - weird, must explore]
Highly eroded floor. Changes Shape every 20m.
To get to the Wakt Tunnel: At the Slide, take the small right pipe,
go up this for 30m then a further 20m. Is good, 8ft, with grilles
open to the inside of the Harbour Tunnel.
Otherwise, pop the northern concrete manhole in Park.
Care: sloping ramp 45deg use to be waterfall - rope provided.
Acc: Down street grate in dip north western side of corner of Little
Spring street and Spring street Nth Sydney [actually in Little
Spring St] it is beneath the corner of the shopping centre car
park. Drop into 6' brick oviform. Sydway pg 46 or 277 [J4] Best
to park car over grate and enter from under car. If car is
parked over grille, use open channel, which now has a huge
vertical grille over it. The door in this may bolted.
Sydway 046L06 A CDS unit has been installed at this end.
It often floods the outlet to its roof. If so use the
concrete manhole (Southern) in park situed between High St
and McDougall St. 046K06
Exit: Open channel in Milson park, cnr Hipwood & Bradley sts, Hinged
grille in side gutter 50 m upstream of Little Spring grille,
slightly dodgy as it opens out onto a clearway.
Wet: ankle, the 3ft section, may involve crawling (hurts less), so
wet knees/hands
Photo: yes.
Int: Excellent
Todo: Kill CDS UNIT!
Tip: Explore past the Spring St grille, it gets bigger and good.
Found: 1996 Mr India


Name: Misguided. 350m long.
Descrip: Drain that is similar in design to Hercules Pillars.
Feat: Drain within a drain design, not unlike Hercs entrance.
ramped entrance, 10m long crawl spot, 6ft rcp.
Room full of misplaced and misaligned drain sections.
Loc: Holroyd. 272 N01
Acc: Walk thru carpark for #20 Crescent St, jump wall at back, head down
to canal, walk 200m downstream. Misplaced is the right hand rect.
drain.
Exit: Grille in misplaced room.
Int: Average
Photos: A couple.
Found: 1995 Prowler



Name: Mount Druitt. 1.1km long.
Descrip: Three parallel 6ft rounds, that pass thru two large rooms,
before splitting to a 6ft and a 5ft round. The 6ft round,
eventually becomes an 8ft round, 7ft round, 6ft round, then
shrinks away, having passes thru various rooms.
Feat: Tapered ends on drains as they enter the rooms, they look like
the exhaust pipes on supercharged cars.
Loc: Mt Druitt. SYDWAY [288 C4]
Acc: South side of Kurrajong Ave, between the two streets that make
up Sunblest Cres. Over fence.
Exit: Bolted grille at end of 3ft pipe, get a spanner or don't
bother.
Wet: Entrance is knee deep and dirty, but avoidable. Use available
stepping stones, once in drain, do the splits
Int: Good
Found: 1995 Prowler


Name: Mr India's Vestibule. 30m long.
Descrip: Not a very big drain, but decent sized room inside, along with
some interesting old stonework.
Feat: Slide out into canal. Its fun, and a worthy challenge.
Loc: Johnstons Creek canal, under Booth Street bridge. 064 N04
Acc: Climb through small sandstone drain entering canal.
Exit: None as yet. Drain not explored past steep slide.
Photos: Yes
Wet: 1"
Int: Good for stonework.
Found: 1997 Mr India


Name: M2 Marconi. 400m long.
Descrip: 5ft rcp.
Feat: Big Grille rooms, a small steep slide.
Loc: Maquarie Park 235 K17
Acc: To the N.W. side of Khartoum Rd under the M2 Hwy.
Wet: No.
Exit: Ends at back of GEC Marconi Building.
Int: Average
Found: 1998 Mr India


Name: M2 Doubledecker.
Descrip: 3X10ft rec drains.
Feat: A 10ft wide by 4ft high double decker drain, coming in from
the roof.
Loc: Carlingford. 233 H11
Acc: On Westmore Dr, near Dickson Ave. Go over fence onto land
on which sits a high power transmission pylon. Go south
down into bushes.
Exit: Ends.
Wet: Swamp at either end.
Int: Average


Name: M2 Tollplaza
Descrip: Straight, relatively short 6ft rectangular underneath M2
tollplaza.
Feat: Some churnblocks at end
Loc: North Ryde. 235 F14
Acc: Best access is from upstream end. Park in valley on Talavera road,
between Herring Road and Culloden Road. Enter drain where creek
passes under road -avoiding the fence.
Exit: Way you came.
Wet: Slightly
Int: Average
Found: 1998 Trioxide


Name: Muffler Cliche'. 300m long.
Descip: Old disused water supply tunnel.
Feat: Huge Canal, grilled off entrance, "1905" plaque, nine cross
hatching churn barriers (like a muffler), 9ft high, 300m long.
Loc: Prospect. 270 N03
Acc: From the kink in Hyland Rd walk north towards the Boral Quarry,then
west at the gate in the fence and walk 250m to the western end of
the tunnel. Jump into canal and squeeze thru hole in vertical
grill.
Exit: Other end Padlocked.
Wet: No.
Photos: Yes
Care: Keep in mind that the canal is still connected to Prospect
Reservoir.
Todo: Say hello to Sydneys only Drain Turtles.
Int: Good
Found: 1998 Siologen


Name: Mulletdox. 400m long.
Descrip: Older drain, just down stream from DiodeDox. Starts at rail
bridge and ends just below Channel 9 TV mast. Has large side
branch, near lower end, this gets smaller and goes for ages
So, in order, the drains on Tunks Creek from the upstream end
are:-
DiodeDox, Mulletdox, Gobbledox, & Gravel Socks.
Feat: Old fashioned bread loaf shape!
Loc: [Sydway 35 C12]
Acc: Same as for DiodeDox, but go downstream.
Exit: Main tunnel ends. Side branch leads to several grilles in bush
near Artarmon reserve.
Wet: Shoe
Int: Average
Found: 1992 Mullet/Diode


Name: 1924. 450m long
Descrip: A big-small-big-small-big-small-big drain that is a mix of very
old and new sections
Feat: Old chambers(8ft), with sandstone floors, walls and concrete
ceilings that still have the rendering newspaper stuck to them.
The newspaper is readable and all dated 1924, highly amusing
advertorial and editorial articles. Downstream end is 5ft
waterfalls, knee deep Gpt, then tidal exit to Cooks River.
Loc: Dulwich Hill Sydways: 295 R16.
Acc: Same as for Debris Drain, though 1924 is downstream, going
under Ewart St towards Cooks River. Look for a large grille in
the road.
Photos: Yes
Exit: Yeah, maybe, at low tide.
Wet: Shin, unavoidable Gpt.
Int: Average
Now: Half of first chamber has been removed and a gpt diversion tank
installed.
Found: 1998 Siologen/Dirge


Name: Nightvision.
Descrip: 800m long 7ft rcp with big grille rooms every 50-100 m.
Feat: Very unusual big, double, upstream grille room with lotsa
drains entering it.
Loc: Graystanes 271-E09
Acc: Either thru big grille room in grass verge, cnr Britton and
Long Sts or via 2x 5ft rcps in creek, 30m south of cnr of
Britton and Long Sts.
Exit: Many grilles
Wet: Gpt at base of waterfall up tunnel from big unusual grille
room, otherwise, dry.
Int: Good
Found: 2000 Siologen



Name: No Expense Spared. 300m long.
Descrip: 5'8 rcp, with a few slides.
Feat: Mega quality grilles, a delight to use.
Loc: Cherrybrook. 213 F15
Acc: 50m downstream (N) of Cycleway drain, in reserve, Cnr
WoodgroveAve Hillgate Pl.
Exit: Any of the hinged mega grilles.
Wet: Maybe, found during rain.
Int: Boring
Found: 1999 Trioxide/Siologen


Name: (The) Oasis. 400m long.
Descrip: 15' <> by 8' ^ drain under Manly Vale industrial area.
Feat: Size and garden in churn bollards
Care: Vis
Loc: Sydway 258 Q1 NW corner of West Manly Park
Acc: Climb down into canal from park, walk upstream.
Exit: Ends and grill halfway.
Wet: ankle in middle only [middle of 15' wide box pipe]
Int: Good
Todo: explore side pipes
Eek!: massive amounts of water must rush through
Found: 1996 Mr India


Name: (The) Oasis Extension. 300m long.
Descrip: 5' twin box pipe under residential and part golf course.
Feat: Avoiding golfers and handling the knee deep water.
Care: Golfers don't like introverts of society.
Loc: Sydway 259 A1 open channel E side of Addiscombe rd over fence
at Kenneth Rd Intersection.
Acc: Jump fence next to guard rail on Addiscombe Rd, jump into
canal,walk upstream.
Exit: Opens into golfcourse at upstream end [follow canal up to "Oasis"
Wet: Knee
Int: Boring
Todo: Boat it
Eek!: is rather wet and boring
Found: 1997 Mr India


Name: Ogre's Hovel. 300m long.
Descrip: Large wide drain running adjacent to Rushcutter's Bay canal.
Feat: Upstairs room with view of a nice clean pipe feeding drain. Old
egg shaped sewer tunnel that branches off and runs over
Rushcutter's Bay drain, dry and not in use.
Acc: After exploring Rushcutter's bay drain, continue south under
bridge, and out into main canal. Turn north again. Or enter
canal from Sth corner of Bayswater Rd and Neild Ave, take right
side drain. sydways:067 A01
Wet: Tidal, varies from dry to knee
Exit: Sea exit next to Rushcutter's Bay canal
Int: Average
Found: 1997 Ogre


Name: Orphan School Creek.
Descrip: Old varied drain running under the Children's Hospital in
Camperdown and Annandale.
Feat: Various structures. Sandstone sections.
Acc: 4ft square tunnel coming off Johnson's Ck canal, under Wigram
Rd Bridge. Sydways: 064 N04
Exit: Manhole at right hand bend is openable (going upstream).
Wet: Usually dry.
Int: Boring
Found: 1991 Melb. Clan


Name: The Padded Room
Descrip: Enormous chamber under a Private Hospital.
Feat: BIIIG! Canal running down middle banked by donutform
concrete banks, running up to 20m wide either side.
Twin waterfalls at upstream ends, big skylight grilles.
Loc: Wentworthville. 252E10
Acc: Across the road from the Private Hospital on Darcy Rd,
jump in creek, this passes under the road, via 4ft recs.
Follow to top of waterfall(s), jump down... you're in.
Exit: Exits at rear of Hospital.
Wet: Centre channel becomes flooded. Walk along edges.
Int: Very Good
Photos: Yep.
Found: 2002 Hatchet/Millsy


Name: Penitentiary
Descrip: 600m long 7ft rcp.
Feat: Massive locked gate over upstream end.
Huge and really weird grille room, looks like an underground
car port, dry, leaves strewn, offset from main drain.
Loc: Greystanes 271-E09
Acc: Downstream end is 100m up canal, just 20m west of the corner
of Britton St and Long St. Take right most tunnel. Left two
are Midnight Express.
Exit: Gated exit, can be squeezed over. Emerges at Water Supply
pipelines, 300 east of Cooper St.
Wet: No
Int: Good
Found: 2000 Fishie/Siologen


Name: Penrith. 1.6m long
Descrip: 3 parallel 8ft pipes, two of which join up in a big room, then
split off to a 6ft rec that becomes an 8ft round; a dead end
6ft round; and twin 5ft rounds that end beneath a huge grille
in the north west cnr of Penrith Mall carpark. The other is the
same length, has a single 5ft branch and d.ends in a 8ft room.
Feat: Various skylight grilles, lotsa Bats.
Loc: Penrith. SYDWAY [255 G8]
Acc: Located between Road and Rail Bridge over Nepean River.
Exit: A squeeze between the elevated Grille and the sidewalk, 30cm
wide.
Wet: Ankle at entrance, avoidable.
Int: Very Good
Found: 1997 Prowler


Name: Perseverance. 600m long.
Descrip: Interesting Drain with some low sections.
Feat: Room reminiscent of a Canberra drain
Loc: Padstow. sydways: 313 J13
Acc: canal in small park off Arab Rd
Exit: Grille in Playford Park, along Nth fence.
Int: Average
Found: 1995 Diode/Predator


Name: Pete's. 1.3 km long
Other: Petes Love Canal
Descrip: Round, at least 1Km long, 8' dia at entrance. Two branches with
small rounds to right, one with excellent echo. Eventually
becomes 5' covered brick canal. Exit via thin concrete slab
cover in grass beside gutter in dip of Princes St, between Park
St and Grove Av.
Loc: 50m to W of boatramp off Morshead Dr, Oatley Bay. [Sydway 334 N4].
Exit: If you want to mission past the 4ft sections of the covered
canal, the drain eventually ends on Dardaneilles St.
Wet: No
Int: Average
Found: 1991 Predator


Name: Phat Ego. 900m long.
Descrip: 8-7ft rect drain.
Feat: Huge skylight grilles, one about 12m long, replacing roof in
sections.
Loc: Fairfeild East. 272 C19
Acc: South east end of Knight Pk, starts under Fairfeild St, deep canal.
Exit: Emerges in park, just east of Seville St.
Photos: Yeup
Int: Good
Found: 1999 Hatchet


Name: Playschool. 500m long.
Descrip: Rcp Drain.
Feat: Rooms, sloping bits, 6ft high.
Loc: Banksia. 316 B12.
Acc: Go down laneway from Chestnut St near corner with Short St.
go up rectangle drain. Gets bigger after 100m.
Exit: Maybe grilles.
Int: Average
Wet: No.
Found: 2000 Dirge.


Name: Predator's. 1.3km long.
Other: Predators Tomb (Melbourne name)
Descrip: Long drain with interesting changes, slide, roof dips, etc.
Feat: Twin 7' high rect. entrance, also entrance to separate drain
Wired. Some access shafts are very high, one with a grating
balcony half way up. Lots of branches.
Loc: [Sydway 74 M16]
Acc: Through hole in wire fence at East side of kink in Sydney Steel
Rd.
Exit: Grille up 2ft side pipe
Photos: Yes.
Wet: No
Int: Good
Found: 1991 Predator


Name: Prosthetic. 350m long.
Descrip: 3 x 5'8 rectangles, split to 4 rectangles.
Feat: The left hand tunnel has a window on its left side halfway
thru. This window leads to an adjacent drain that goes nowhere,
dead ends in both directions. In the opposite corner of this
drain there is a 2ft pipe that leads to the Soul Cage.
Loc: South Strathfeild 294 H15
Acc: Follow canal downstream from the corner of Juno Pde and
Punchbowl Rd.
Exit: Ends near exit from Enfeild drain, eastern side of Marshalling
Yards
Wet: No, but side drain is ankle deep in wet sand.
Int: 2
Todo: If your in the area, take alook at the lake in the empty
block of land behind the Marshalling Yards. The lake is HUGE! and
has islands, etc. Lake is a product of TNT Explosives that were
tested by the chemical works that used to inhabit the site
Found: 1991 Predator


Name: Prowler's. 800m long.
Other: Prowlers Tomb
Descrip: 6ft rec drain that becomes 7ft almost straight away
Feat: Interesting grille room, triple split into 5ft rounds, and
joins up again, eventually exiting in an unknown overgrown
swamp in the back of a wrecker's yard.
Loc: Padstow [Sydway 313 L8].
Acc: Find a canal just north of the Bankstown Substation, and follow
it westwards, to the entrance adjacent to Fairford Rd.
Photos: Yes:
Exit: Either thru 5ft rounds, or via dislodged section in final
grille, before split.
Int: good
Found: 1995 Predator/Prowler/Diode


Name: Pumping Station. 1.6km long.
Descrip: Long rectangular drain.
Feat: Used to have a big pumping chamber but this was removed in 1999
when the topside building was demolished.
Loc: [Sydway 75 G13], 167 Wyndham St, Alexandria.
Acc: Over metal rail fence into open channel.
Exit: Manhole in small park near cnr Marriott & Boronia Sts Redfern.
Long way up tunnel.
Wet: Ankle
Cond: Pumping Station as such doesn't exist anymore, all machinery
removed, however, large chamber still exists.
Photos: Yes.
Int: Average
Todo: Need 'DEV' (Drain Exploration Vehicle) to follow all the way.
Found: 1991 Melb. Clan


Name: Purgatories Travelator. 400m long.
Descrip: Another old disused Water Supply Tunnel.
Feat: Canal empties into 10m deep pit, that has a 12ft rcp in it.
The pits(one at each end)are grilled off, with hatches and ladders
descending into them. The pits are surrounded by Turreted buildings
with roof access. The tunnel is 300m long and is huge on
atmosphere!
Loc: Greystanes. 271 E03
Acc: 100m north east of Dahlia St And Maquarie Rd roundabout in the
middle of the large reserve. Entrance to building is door on south
side. May be padlocked.
No access from canal as large metal gates block access.
Exit: Other end.
Wet: Bone Dry.
Photos: Yes.
Cond: Outer layer of tunnel is chipping off, lots of garbage and evidence
of fires and squatters.
Int: Very Good
Eek!: When in use, this tunnel would be filled to the roof and would have
acted as a giant siphon
Found: 1998 Siologen


Name: Pyramid .
Descrip: The 'Pyramid' is a massive steel grill (10' high) over a
vertical deep shaft in Brennan park near the rail line.
Definitely kiddie proof. The drain is short, but has three
different forms, one of which is round corrugated iron 5'5"
dia. (So is the shaft). Shin deep pool. Very bad erosion
undercutting south wall of brick arch tunnel past pool.
Now: This drain is now a side drain in the Swoo system
Loc: [Sydway 45 E3]
Acc: Via Swoo, take first left hand tunnel in Swoo, to see Pyramid
from topside go down embankment from Brenen park.
Photos: Yes
Wet: Shin
Found: 1993 Diode/Predator


Name: Quaint. 350m long.
Descrip: Short drain running under Lilyfeild Trainyards
and roadway. Branches off Whites Creek.
Feat: 5'9 tub shaped drain changing to 5ft brick/sandstone arch. Two
shafts with shared grille at change, usually gushing with
waterfall effect.
Loc: Lilyfield. At downstream end of Whites Creek. Sydways 054 K20
Acc: Enter Whites Creek canal at Brenan St bridge. Take smaller
canal on north side of bridge upstream. Entrance is about 200m
up canal.
Exit: Ends. Grille above waterfall is now openable. (Bolts have been
removed)
Photos: Yes
Wet: 1"
Int: Average
Found: 1997 Siologen


Name: Quasi. 400m long.
Other: Eastwood Drain
Descrip: Seemed pretty good (after doing Deep Throat). It's a 'twin',
with each side having: 6' 5" rectangular, 8' chamber, 6'
rounded diamond, 7' rectangular, short open, then a huge under-
rail chamber, mega tags. Pity the stupid bastards didn't roof
over the last little bit!
Total length about 500m.
Loc: [Sydway 254 J4] Under Eastwood shopping centre.
Acc: Between car park and Hillview lane.
Phot: Yes.
Int: Average
Wet: No
Found: 1993 Predator


Name: Queens. 1.1km long.
Descrip: 6'1 oval drain, long, 9ft arch entrance, with underrail chamber,
splits.
Loc: Over fence opp. Queen St on Croydon Rd, Ashfield, side drain to
Iron Cove canal. Sydways: 295 M10
Acc: Walk in...
Exit: Big grille on upstream side of rail chamber, Burwood.
Int: Average
Wet: no.
Found: 1994 Predator


Name: Quickie
Descrip: hardcore 3' box converting to 1'9 under Allambie residential
Feat: just doing it!
Care: Look after your back
Cond: good, not too worn
Loc: Sydway 238 L16, bottom of Wandella Res
Acc: Walk to bottom of park, enter canal, do drain.
Exit: opens into bushland
Phot: No
Wet: ankle or less
Int: Boring
Todo: nothing
Eek!: scary small drain.
Found: 1997 Mr India


Name: Rangers. 450m long.
Descrip: Very old and interesting under rail drain.
Feat: Brick arch, twin sandstone hallway sections,
slide, heapsa moths.
Loc: Edna May Hunt Sanctuary, Epping. 234 K20.
Acc: Over fence at base of railway enbankment in Edna M.H.
Sanctuary, which is at the S end of Yarran Ave.
Exit: To Terrys Creek.
Wet: Knee deep at exit.
Int: Good


Name: Reo. 200m long
Descrip: Rcp
Feat: Heavy steel entrance, 5ft waterfall in a huge room,
reinforcing rod vertical grille on upstream exit.
Loc: Merrylands 272 N01
Acc: Climb wall at rear of 20 Crescent St, walk 200m d/s
to rcp on left of canal. Right rect. is Misplaced drain.
Exit: Squeeze under reo grille.
Int: Average
Found: 1995 Prowler


Name: Red Hill Drain
Descrip: 4'- 6' rcp down big hill
Feat: Skateboarding it
Care: Has numerous 2' waterfalls
Cond: As new!
Loc: Sydway 238 L2, SW side of Penrhyn Dr, Near Supply Ave
intersection.
Acc: Enter in via hinged gutter grill and descend step irons
Exit: Pipe flows out into creek next to Willandra Rd
Phot: No
Wet: Not really
Int: Average
Eek!: steep in sections
Found: 1997 Mr India


Name: Revesby Rail.
Descrip: Drain following rail line past Revesby station. Starts off 6'
round, is 5' at exit grill beside rail line near Hendy Av.
Grills before this are immovable. Continues on, but gets
smaller and smaller.
Loc: [Sydway 313 D16] Revesby
Acc: Via park off Montgomery Av. (Next to Lover's Drain)
Int: Boring
Found: 1993 Diode


Name: Ribbed.
Descrip: 5'0ft round drain.
Feat: Small rooms, rubber ribs held in place by metal ringlets (for
extra stimulation!!!)
Loc: Rose Bay. 058 Q18
Acc: At north end of small beach, north of Vickery Ave.
Wet: Tidal, lo tide: dry, hi tide: knee.
Int: Boring
Found: 1998 Siologen


Name: Rick's. 200m long.
Other: Ricks Tomb, Wooloomooloo Sewer
Descrip: Filthy tidal drain in Sth end of Woolloomooloo Bay, 5ft high,
200m long with old sandstone sections, basically just a 24hr
sewer overflow.
Feat: Big turds make this drain a right turd. It has a real sense of
nastiness in it especially when one wades into it, alone at
11pm on a mondaynight. Was found by the Melbourne Clan in 1991,
they floated into it at hi tide with this acid head named Rick.
Rick took a bad turn with his LSd and freaked out, causing
the inflatable to grind against the drain and subsequently
de-flate. A video Camera was lost. It was revisted by Siologen,
in 1998, who sincerly regrets doing so.
Loc: Woolloomooloo Bay. Sydways:056 N17
Acc: To the west of the finger wharf, its the left of two drains
that sit side by side.
Wet: If your 6ft tall itll be just below yer crotch, if yer less
than 6ft tall, use a boat
Int: Average for the old sandstone arch, boring otherwise.
Care: Usual cautions in relation to big fat turds, tampons & other
excretia.
Found: 1991 Melb. Clan


Name: Rocktop '5A'. 2.3km long.
Descrip: 2Km rectangular drain, 9' high, 8' wide.
Feat: Length, alternating concrete/bare rock roof, concrete pimples
on rock roof. Side shaft with pool and impassable vertical
slide. Two 4' dia round drains above slide, one bricked up 3m
in. Stalactite straws, assorted car parts, steering locks, etc.
huge double grille in roof.
Care: Dog in #5 Malakoff barks its head off.
Loc: [Syd 316 D2], Between #5 and #7 Malakoff St Marrickville, to
exit on Cooks river (Warren park)
Acc: Malakoff St: Over 8' high colorbond metal fence, between
houses.
Wet: River: Low tide: knee level. High tide: swim, 1' air space.
Photos: Yup.
Int: Very Good
Todo: How to get to drain above water slide? Plank with hook to fit
rungs in shaft?
Found: 1992 Predator


Name: Rollerderby. 400m long.
Descrip: Y shaped Drain, main tunnel is 6ft as is western tail,
eastern tail is 2ft h x 4ft, but.....
Feat: ....its as smooth as a babies bum, goes down a long slope and
has a 4ft slide where it becomes 6ft, so, you louge it(ride a
skateboard lieing down), all the way, then if yer bearings 'll
handle it, skate through the rest of the drain as its smooth
too. If you dont have a skateboard, dont bother with the 2ft bit..
oh yeah, and you suck too.
Loc: North Ryde, Badajoz Rd. Sydways: 255 L09
Acc: West tail: D/s of cnr of Badajoz + Norfolk Way.
East Tail: 4ft rcp on Hospital side of Badajoz Rd opp Pacey Ave.
Exit: Ends at Harford St.
Int: Without Skateboard: Boring, With Skateboard: Good.
Care: Use old skateboard, slow down when you reach the slide.
Found: 1998 Siologen


Name: Rookwood.
Descrip: Various drain sections, some open parts, drain under rail
lines. In Rookwood cemetery: very unusual 'serpentine' open
channel, 8' deep by 2' wide.
Feat: Vertical shaft under rail lines. Average height is 11ft.
Loc: [Sydway 273 R14]
Acc: SE corner of Phillips Park. Follow South for Rookwood. To see
'serpentine' drive into Rookwood from East St, go to dirt road
parallel to Railway St.
Exit: Opens.
Int: Good
Found: 1993 Diode


Name: Rooster's Egg. 500m long.
Other: Burzum's Cavern
Descrip: Short drain with a huge horseshoe shaped room(16ft high)
halfway thru, under Sydenham Station.
Feat: Humpty's party room. Egg shape looks like it was an old train
tunnel section.
Loc: Sydenham. Sydways: 074-L17
Acc: Enter canal on NE side of station. head downstream. Around the
corner going upstream is Three Pits drain.
Photos: Yes, but dodgy flash exposure occured due to tired batteries.
Exit: Ends, but jump over north side of canal and return to starting
spot via Three Pits drain. (Two 6x8 ft squares)
Int: Good
Found: 1991 Melb. Clan


Name: Rushcutters Bay. 1.5km long.
Descrip: Storm water drain.
Feat: Large tunnel, junction, 8' round pipe, big waterfall followed
by a slide in old arch shaped tunnel.
Loc: [Sydway 67 A1]
Acc: South end of Rushcutters Bay park, at Bayswater Rd.
Todo: Explore all branches.
Care: Consistent sewage overflow.
Photos: Yes.
Int: Very Good
Found: 1989 Melb. Clan. Recognised as the first "decent" drain found in
Sydney.



Name: Scorpion's. 1.3km long.
Other: Scorpions Tomb, Scorpions Flaps
Descrip: Drain at Bondi beach. Exit is at south end of beach, but no
access due to big grille.
Feat: 8' round pipe, chamber, dual sloping large round pipes to hatch
room. Giant fibreglass round hatches. Need two people to lift
and clamp, rope to hold open. More sloping pipe, to large 'lake
room'.The 'flaps room to lake room' affair is duplicated
further up as well.
Care: Make sure hatches are securely fixed open, you would not be
able to push open from the inside.
Loc: [Sydway 69 B8]
Acc: Chop padlock off either of large grilles in bondi beach park, one
is next to the skateboard ramp, the other 300m north. May already
be unlocked.
Exit: None yet.
Phot: Predator, Diode, Siologen.
Wet: Dry, except for pools, which are about 9' deep. Take Inflatable
dingys/lilos
Int: Good
Todo: Siphon lake, go further. Explore RH 5'6' round drain from
entrance.
Log: 9/6/93 Diode, Mullet, Predator. Took gear for hatches, plus
pipes to siphon lake. partial success - drained lake down 4',
but its about another 5' deep! Gave up, explored RH round - it
goes to ANOTHER flaps room with another lake. So there are 4
flaps: #1,2 in room near entrance MH, #3,4 in room up RH round
drain. On surface again, found large rectangular hatches to
other side of both lake rooms. Entered, explored drains on
other side of lakes for some distance. A bit
disappointing, just plain, smallish drains. Drain from flaps #1
& 2 is smaller, branches soon. Other one is 5' and goes a long
way, not explored far.
Found 1992 Predator/ Diode


Name: The Scout.
Descrip: Open section in Drain in Brookvale Scout Hall land. 5' us, 6'Ds
Feat: unknown drain
Care: Fumes [industrial area]
Cond: ok, tad old
Loc: Sydway 239 A10 in Scout Hall land on Windborne Rd [just along
from Maccas corner
Acc: Climb over fence, walk in
Exit: ????? rumoured to go as far as the brick works
Phot: no
Wet: ankle
Int: ?
Now: ????? scout hall land to be sold
Todo: explore it!
Eek!: gully that pipes open into is rather deep!
Found: 1997 Mr India


Name: 2nd Pennant Hills
Descrip: Named for gutter grill which used to be outside the
2nd Pennant Hills Scout Hall, but the scout hall
has since been demolished. It's a low low drain and this
gives an indication of the extreme keeness of Stray as a
teenager. Ends in someones garden...they have a dog.
Feat: Age of drain from newspaper on roof - Historically 1950's
Loc: [Sydway 214 F20]
Acc: From gutter grill Shields lane
Exit: Possible exit in park at end of Warne St
Wet: Shoe
Int: Boring.
Found: 1997 Stray.


Name: Seventeen Steps.
Descrip: Not huge, but lots of 1m high waterfalls. Strays First drain-
I was shorter then so it was cool... now im not so sure.
Feat: Waterfalls!
Loc: Thornleigh. Sydways: 214 F16
Acc: Clamber down to drain entrance under small footbridge at the
end of Edmundson Close.
Exit: Heaps of Grilles, all in quiet streets.
Wet: Shoe
Int: Average
Found: 1998 Stray


Name: Shea's Creek. 2.6km long.
Descrip: "Wrong way Up" elliptical... 10 feet wide and 6 feet high.
Loops up with adjacent 6ft x 9ft brick/concrete rectangular.
Feat: Double Loop,(go in one tunnel, come out the other), small, bone dry
side tunnels, lounge room within loop!
Loc: Alexandria. Sydways: 075-B15.
Acc: NE cnr of Sydney Park. Jump in canal off Mitchell Rd, near
carpark in park. head upstream. Choose either entrance.
Photos: Yes.
Exit: Whichever entrance you choose, exit from the other.
Wet: Shin in sections
Int: Good
Found: 1990 Melb. Clan


Name: Short, Fat and Grid. 1.3km long.
Descrip: Three drains along one canal, listed as one, cos that's how
you'll probably do em. (Apart from bent over)
Grid is about 800m and has some 10' high sections, as well as a
very unusual ceiling feature in one section (the 'grid').
Fat is 300m, a wide arch, 6' in centre.
Short is hardly worth mentioning.
Loc: [Sydway 316 E2]
Short: Under Premier St.
Fat: Warren Rd to Schebel St.
Grid: Between Myrtle St and rail line, to middle of Frampton
St.
Hint: Do Grid by itself.
Acc: Channel at west end of Mackey Park. Follow up thru Short, Fat,
Grid.
Wet: No
Photo: Yes.
Int: Overall: Good
Pred says: The Prowler and Pred expo discovered this drain's upstream end
has been extended and there is a new feature in the roof...
a pot-plant rack (you'll understand when you see it).
Found: 1993 Diode


Name: Sin City. 880m long.
Descrip: 880 metres of 7ft concrete rectangle, with a bifurcated
upstream end.
Feat: A strange overflow into a capped canal.
Loc: Beverly Hills. Sydways: 314-K15
Acc: Upstream entrance in park at cnr Edgbaston Rd and Melvin St
South.
Exit: Outlet near cnr Tooronga and Bundarra St
Wet: No
Int: good for skateboarding thru.
Found: 1983 Predator. Said to be the first Sydney Clan "Found" Drain.


Name: Siolodrain. 400m long.
Descrip: 4ft rcp drain with six waterfalls in it. Fall heights between
3-15ft.
Feat: Low entrance, which is flooded to ceiling. Falls are in
vertical rcps that are rather like.... Silos.
Loc: Rozelle. 054 K13
Acc: In the seawall in the Balmain Cove Townhouse
complex, off Terry St. Lift big hatches. Will probably have
manhole access when they finish its construction.
Exit: Manhole.
Wet: Grovelling at entrance ensures getting soaked.
Int: Boring
Care: Security
Found: 1998 Siologen


Name: Skylight
Descrip: Starts big, but shrinks and branches-larger branch(right)
ends up in someones garden near The Esplanade, smaller branch heads
towards Headon Pk?
New work in 90's added the twin pipe and skylight. There are a few
other drains in the area that go under roads, then become canals in
private gardens. Perhaps in 100 years time they'll cover em all up
to create a superb network.
Feat: Not much except for the huge skylight!
Loc: Thornleigh 214 F16
Acc: Just walk in from some vacant land at the cnr of Eddy and Tillock
Sts.
Exit: None
Wet: Shoe
Int: Average
Found: 1998 Stray


Name: Sludgebucket Drain. 150m long.
Other: Wooloomooloo Sewer
Descrip: Ricks other half. 5'8ft, tidal, dead ends at a brick wall and
waist deep mud. Wall has hole in it that could either lead to
the Ricks sewer, or on to a decent drain
Loc: Woolloomooloo Bay. Sydways: 056 N17
Acc: West of finger wharf, is the western drain, Ricks is eastern.
Exit: None.
Wet: Thigh the whole way. At low tide.
Int: Boring
Todo: Get thru mud, check hole out.
Eek: Dont lose shoes in mud.
Found: 1998 Siologen


Name: Soft Toffee 500m
Descrip: New Drain, built for extension of M5.
Feat: Twin 9ft rect drain, with funny slopes, and station benches.
Dual side tunnels, with Gpts, stations, and a big grille room.
Loc: Kingsgrove 315B09
Acc: Drains start on the east side of Kingsgrove Rd, just south of
new M5 overpass, runs west.
Exit: Ends.
Wet: Gpts are ankle, but almost avoidable.
Int: Good
Found: 2001 Mr India/Fishy/Siologen


Name: Strathfield . 1.6km long.
Descrip: Drain with security camera pointed at entrance and infra-red
detectors. 6ft tall elliptical.
Feat: Two 7ft rooms, High security, iron gates, (like garage doors),
long and unchanging.
Care: Dunno if security stuff actually works.
Loc: Strathfield. Sydways: 274 P19
Acc: Jump fence, cnr Beresford and Elva Sts, walk upstream, smiling
at camera, the watchers of the camera don't seem to care
Photos: Yes, a couple.
Exit: proceed past gates until a pipe protrudes into the drain. Get
in this and pop the grille to get out somewhere along the south
gutter of Russel St.
Int: Boring
Found: 1991 Melb Clan


Name: Stringybark Ck
Descrip: 6ft rcp, followed by 4ft rcp.
Feat: None.
Loc: Lane Cove North. 034 L11
Acc: Stringybark creek, west end of park between Karilla and Murray Sts.
Exit: Grilles at other end of park. May be locked.
Wet: Knee at entrance.
Int: Boring.
Found: 2000 Dtrog


Name: Surprise. 600m long.
Descrip: Wouldn't be a surprise if I told you. Do it!
Best feature: about the 3rd change, or is it the 4th? Height
ranges from 8ft-10ft.
Loc: [Sydway 334 E3]
Acc: Below elevated sewer, behind RSL club off Depot rd, Mortdale
Todo: Lilo down it in a flood.
Wet: Bottom end is knee deep
Int: Good
Found: 1994 Diode/Mullet


Name: Surveyors Ck
Descrip: Small but interesting hardcore drain.
Feat: Patched up sections, dead end side tunnels, debris blockages,
grille room to flood plain at upstream end. Old.
Loc: Penrith 225 D17
Acc: Just upstream of where Mulgoa Rd crosses the Surveyors Ck reserve,
north of Fairfeild Pl.
Exit: Grilles.
Wet: Knee deep in parts.
Int: Average.



Name: Swoo. 1.3km long.
Other: Swoo 2.
Descrip: This was once a very old drain running under Balls Head
Gasworks. Demolition of the gasworks caused various sections of
the Drain to collapse, and so a new drain was installed.
Feat: Five slides with ropes installed for easier access, 7'5ft
pipe, Old stone entrance, Access to Pyramid drain at junction,
Access to old SWOO via 2ft pipe (clearly marked) with massive
stone arch and tunnels to nowhere. Big grilles leading to new
housing development.
Loc: Wollstonecraft to Balls Head. Sydways: 045 D02
Acc: Down stairs from Belmont Ave to Park. Follow Creek downstream
to 5ft arch entrance.
Exit: Drain eventually leads to impassible trash traps. Better to get
out one of the many grills, or back the way you came.
Wet: Dry in most parts, ANKL in some places.
Photos: Loads.
Int: Excellent
Eek: Dare you venture into Mr India's Poo Pit....
Now: Old Swoo has had 5 building foundation pillars parked thru its
roof. Still acc. but is flooded knee deep due to spraycrete leakage
Fuckwits!!! Ropes got cut....
Found: Old Swoo: 1993 Diode/Predator. Swoo II: 1998 Ogre/Mr India


Name: Sydney. 1.8km long.
Other: Ultimo Drain
Descrip: Ancient drain with steps, slides and a lot of rubble. Strewn with
barnacles. Tidal entrance. Natural thing to explore when
floating out of Darling Harbour Drain.
Loc: Sydney, Darling Harbour. Sydways: 025 F20
Acc: Under wharf, Darling harbour, behind pollution netting, cockle
bay promenade adjacent to western distributor. Most westerly
drain is overflow, east of that is main tunnel, east of that
are the Darling Harbor Drains
Exit: Trimar in main tunnel, is marked with Melbourne Tags,
topside location is a pedestrian isle directly north of the Peir
st overpass near Darling Drive. Other exit is emergency only
as it comes out in the back dock of the Carlton Crest
Hotel Carpark in Ultimo. This exit is 350m up the right
hand split and is found via light coming in thru two
lightweight metal plates. Deflate boats, lift, exit and
run to carpark doors. Trimar: 027 G1
Care: Is filled to roof with water at high tide.
Wet: Boat/swim, it is possible to walk the entire drain, your just up
to your neck in water
Int: Very Good
Found: 1991 Melb. Clan


Name: Sydney Slide. 350m long.
Descrip: Drain with a long steep slide. 5'8ft
Feat: Excellent shoe grip test track.Eroded hole in floor near top-
this will be very interesting in a few years time.
Loc: [Sydway 46 C12] Cremorne
Acc: At the bottom of Millet Rd, off Avenue Rd.
Exit: Gap in roof of brick arch chamber at top of slide.
Photos: Yes.
Wet: No
Int: good
Found: 1992 Predator/Melb. Clan


Name: Sygnecex
Descrip: Drain, running undere new M5.
Feat: 3 tunnels, with joiners, open sections. One tunnel runs along
the side of a canal. The sections are not sealed so all the light
from the outside beams in ribbing the inside of the rect tunnel.
Loc: Beverley Hills 314 N10
Acc: From the NW end of Elouera St follow outside of Golf course
south until you reach a canal situed between the GC and M5.
Follow canal d/s for 100m.
Exit: Ends
Wet: Mostly not.
Int: Average
Found: 2000 Hatchet/Siologen


Name: Tank Stream. 700m long.
Descrip: At last, finally got into the bloody thing. The MSWB used to
run tours in it, up to a year or two ago, but stopped due to
the friendly Confined Spaces Act. Catch, we found out AFTER
they stopped.
NB. Anything with a "Do not enter - Confined Space" sign will be
good!
Feat: Multiple changes, in both directions from access manhole. Lots
of colonial stonework, including arches, eggs, rooms, etc,
mixed with some contemporary rectangular concrete sections.
Not a very big drain overall and definatly not the huge beast
that people think it is, but big on mystique. Height of
sections, from downstream end: 5'6 arch, 5'8 twin rcp, room, 5'10
balloon, 5'0 arch, 5'10 hallway, 6'0 arch, 5'0 balloon, 5'0 rcp,
4'0 balloon. The upstream balloon seems to go on forever,
but reaches a room eventually, with a second room 10m up
from it. This room hold sewage valve gear and two windows into a
sewer.
Loc: [Sydway 26 J16]
You know, THE Tank Stream. Right down the middle of the CBD.
Some under Pitt St. Near Sydney Cove, but veering off towards
George St as it approaches the GPO.
Acc: All accesses found are either in roads, or immovable hatches in
footpaths. All accesses have "TS" in yellow paint, and at least
one segment painted yellow. The markings are mostly very faint.
Manholes are all round type. Best access is via manhole in the
quietest street,
ie:- Corner of Hamilton St and Curtin Place, next to Australia
Square bldg, six segment pizza is a bit to the SE of the centre
of the T intersection. You will need some way of stopping cars
from dropping wheels into the open manhole while you're down
there. We used a panel of hoarding ply off the adjacent
building site. Official looking barricades would make getting
out again less risky though. Beware! On the wall opposite (base
of Aust Square) is a plaque about the Tank Stream, next to a
hole in the wall with steps down to a door. This is where the
official tours of the TS used to enter, and there is a security
camera watching the door. Do not go down the steps. Also, there
was no discernible air movement, and quite a bit of nasty
bubbling from the silt at downstream end. Air seemed OK then,
but may not always be.
Another Entrance exists as a six seg pizza in Angel Place, one
block south. This leads to a 4ft egg and from there you go
downstream. The outlet is very low and even at low tide is only
half a foot from water level.
Exit: Back the same way. All other manholes are in the middle of busy
roads.
Int: Very Good
Phot: Yes.
Found: 1994 Mullet/Diode/Predator


Name: Tavern. 150m long
Descrip: Short drain under block of flats in St Leonards.
Feat: Huge room with churnblocks in 10 ft slide
Acc: In Talus St Reserve, beneath Apartments, near Tennis Courts, St
Leonards. Sydways: 035 D15
Photo: Yes.
Exit: Tunnel ends with partially destroyed litter trap.
Int: Good
Found: 1997 Siologen


Name: Three Pits. 1km long.
Descrip: Long drain, 6' dual parallel rectangular sections. Near
basin end, there are windows between the two sections. Here also
are three side tunnels that lead to the '3 pits', which are
lifting pump shafts to raise water from the basin . See also
'The Basin'.
Loc: [Sydway 74 L17]
Acc: Down channel from "Predator's", ie off Sydney Steel Rd. Also
Sth of embankment of rail line between Sydenham & Marrickville
at Fraser Park. This canal goes to Cooks river next to Tempe
station.
Wet: No.
Int: Average
Found: 1991 Predator


Name: Tin Whistle. 250m long.
Descrip: Drain.
Feat: Twin 7ft high entrance that splits into three 5'8 rounds that
are lined with 6 mm thick steel.
Loc: Rooty Hill. Sydways:229 C16
Acc: Beneath overpass, next to council depot, ne of North Pde, next
to rail line. Near Train station.
Wet: Shin deep at bottom end(found during rainy weekend).
Int: Average
Found: 1998 Siologen


Name: Toxic Swamp. 500m long.
Descrip: 7ft rcp, shrinks to 6ft, smells of aftershave.
Feat: Empties into a big smelly turd infested spraycrete swamp.
Loc: Greystanes. Sydways: 251 N16
Acc: Base of M2 enbankment, between Carolyn & Yvonne Sts, north of
Old Prospect Rd.
Exit: None.
Wet: Ankle at entrance.
Int: Average
Found: 1999 Siologen


Name: Transgrinder. 1.3km long.
Other: Bennelong Outfall/Drain
Descrip: An ancient relic recently modified. Used to be the old
Bennelong sewer, many years ago.
Feat: Old 6'6 brick balloon, 7'conc arch, 7'rough cut s.stone (for
diversion around carpark), 7'0 conc rec, 7'0 smooth cut s.stone
varying and swopping often, finishing with 300m of 4ft concrete
rectangle to the harbour outlet. Big on atmosphere.
Loc: The Young St entrance manhole is in Map 24 K-15. (Sydways)
Acc: Round manhole (8 seg, weighs a tonne) in the eastern footpath
of Young St, roughly opposite House Lane, and adjacent to a large
tree. This entrance is also sadly under the gaze of a security
camera and from all accounts completely moronic Security
Photos: Yes.
Exit: Outlet (Sydways:024 M12)is under the Opera House apron at the north
end to the east. Need to swim or boat, executing the latter between
passes by Jetcats (swell would capsise the average dinghy)
Emergency exit is dry overflow, 2ft diameter, long, enters harbour.
Int: Excellent
Care: If swimming, watch for waves created by watercraft.
This drain is sometimes turd infested
Found: 1995 Mullet


Name: Trashcan. 800m long.
Descrip: Rcp, ranging from 5ft-4ft
Feat: Big Room 500m up, with a huge overflow diversion tank
(20ft^,15ft<>) and two very weird side tunnels(One is flooded
to waist, but may lead to another tank). Also, the drain is
diverted by a 4ft high ramped wall. Drain dead ends at an
impassable 12ft waterfall.
Loc: Ryde. Sydways: 255 E14
Acc: Down slope, in shrubland, opp Argle Ave, on Princes St.
Exit: Grille at end of extra filthy rcp on left beyond diversion wall
Int: Average
Eek: Supreme scum and filth in tank
Found: 1998 Siologen


Name: Treacherous.
Other: The Coogee Outfall Sewer Relief Tunnel.
Descrip: Rarly active Sewer overflow tunnel.
Feat: Emerges as a 6'0 brick balloon at the base of a 40m
high cliff. Has huge overflow windows from sewer. Very old.
Loc: Coogee.Sydways:78 N19
Acc: At LOW tide only, walk north from Coogee beach, around
to rocks. Tunnel is in rock face 250m round base of sea
cliffs. Can be seen from top of cliffs but looks smaller
than it really is.
Exit: Not fully explored, doubtful though.
Care: May suddenly discharge a raging torrent of untreated sewage,
if your unlucky. Do not do at hi tide, huge waves crash into
the cliffs and the tunnel, always do at the lowest tide.
Wet: ankle.
Int: Good
Found: 1999 Siologen


Name: Triad. 500m long.
Descrip: Three parallel 6'H by 8'W drains, that go under Australian Pulp
and Paper Mill's Botany Bay plant. Grills looking up into
plant.
Feat: Hidden entrance, old dam at exit
Loc: [Sydway 337 R1]
Acc: Enter canal under northern end of Bumborah Point Rd, follow
East. Drain entrance is in Northern side of canal just before
abandoned rail bridge. Entrance is 5' high, increases
immediately.
Photos: Yes.
Exit: Ends in wasteland behind plant. Probably still inside plant
grounds.
Wet: Knee at entrance.
Int: Average
Found: 1992 Diode


Name: Trioxides Bent Spoon.
Descrip: Small drain, with pillars and an unusual grille.
Feat: Its 3ft max.
Loc: Concord. 274 R08
Acc: Grille in carpark, Concord Rsl, cnr Nullawarra Ave + Nirranda St.
Wet: No
Exit: None, unless you want to stoop all the way to the tidal harbour
entrance.
Tip: Dont bother doing the whole drain, its only the area near the
grille that is worthwhile
Int: Boring
Found: 1998 Trioxide


Name: The Turdgrinder
Other: Blue Mountains Main Sewer.
Descrip: Sewer Tunnel, nearly 30kms long, 12ft high.
Feat: At the two points accessed, the tunnel was both a 12ft dia
round bored tunnel, with a nearby 8ft side tunnel (at Leura)
and a 10ft tall narrow arch tunnel, also rock bored
(at Faulconbridge).
The Leura end was accessed via a 9 storey deep shaft, with
ladders, cage etc. The Faulconbridge end a 4 storey deep shaft.
Loc: So far, Leura (448R14) and Faulconbridge (201M10).
Acc: (Leura) Head down Cliff Dr until you reach a service road on the
left, opp. a road leading to "Leura Falls" on the left.
Go up service road (gate may be unlocked) and take left road.
This road leads directly to entrance, which is a metal hatch
that should be unlocked.
(Faulconbridge) Going East on the Great Western Hwy, turn left
onto service driveway, 100m east of Clifton Ave. Gate may be open.
Go down then left, over grass towards gates at far east end of
land. Lift Gatics.
Exit: As above.
Care: Fully operational sewer! Beware of feeling light headed or ill.
Unlikely to flood (apparently), but be careful. Water at
Faulconbridge end is fast flowing.
Wet: Hopefully you can avoid the metre wide shit flow running down
the middle. Walk on edges.
Todo: Go back with waders/gumboots/resp. equip. and explore more!
Int: Very Good
Found: 2002 Hatchet


Name: The Twonkin.
Descrip: 6ft rec that becomes a right "twonk" of a 5ft tonkin.
Feat: 10ft high room 50m in with a big vertical grille up near its
ceiling.
Loc: Ryde. Sydways:255 E14
Acc: 20m ne along Princes St from Trashcan, in ne cnr of bushland
Exit: If you bother going this far, get out via grille on Buffalo Rd.
Int: Boring
Found: 1998 Siologen


Name: Unilever. 600m long.
Descrip: Freshly dug drain under old Unilever Soap Factory
grounds. 6ft
Feat: Brand new drain with shiny neon yellow stepirons, many grilles.
History: Used to Be the Beattie St drain, built last century, supposedly
a brick arch, demolished along with the Unilever soap factory,
replaced with rcps(the boys at Meritons idea of imaginative.)
Loc: Balmain. Sydways: 067 Q15
Acc: New rectangular grilles in redeveloped site, Robert St.
Wet: Tidal, but only for first 20m
Int: Average
Found: 1996 Siologen


Name: Vault Drain. 900m long.
Descrip: Interesting drain running under Cooper Park, Woollahra
Feat: Huge overflow valve-door in side branch, near downstream end
and at the end of a 4ft side pipe at the end of the left split.
Access manholes can be seen from above downstream entrance to
operate valve. Twin square tunnels that stay parallel, then
split with arch shaped windows between tunnels. A few eels, the
occasional duck.
Loc: Double Bay Sydways: 298 H04
Acc: Enter Canal at south end of Kiaora St go upstream. Upstream
drain on same canal as Havyatts & Clogged Clam
Exit: Take left hand split in drain to emerge in park near tennis
courts.
Wet: Mostly Dry.
Int: Good
Todo: Open valves and see what comes out?.... SEWER!!!
Now: 2000: Vaults have been sealed!
Found: 1997 Ogre/Mr India


Name: Vertigo
Other: Trumper Park Drain (original Melb. Name)
Descrip: Old Drain under Trumper Park, Edgecliff.
Feat: Varying shapes and sizes. Some old round redbrick sections that
have been eroded away, leaving a scalloped look to the floor.
Many calcite formations. Drain constantly curves upwards,
setting your sense of balance off.5'6ft
Loc: Edgecliff. Sydways: 298 B02
Acc: Enter canal from West side of Glenmore Rd, opp Trumper park.
Head upstream. Downstream of this is Rushcutters Bay Drain and
Ogre's Hovel.
Exit: Various manholes exist but none have been tested.
Wet: 1cm - 2cm
Int: Boring
Found: 1989 Melb Clan


Name: Wasteland. 600m long.
Descrip: The most fucked up drain on this earth... wear head protection.
Feat: Collapsed roof sections, uneven spraycrete, misaligned drain
sections, silt blocked sections, rotten roof beams, a split
with windows, and an 8ft arch section. Also, a 6'2ft ovi
branch.
Loc: Mascot. 317 D6
Acc: South of Rail Crossing on unnamed road that joins Botany rd
and General Holmes Dr.
Int: Good
Wet; Knee in most places
Exit: Rectangular manhole, in Botany Ln, take care for cars and be
gentle as the manhole is falling apart. Otherwise, 6 seg pizza
into Botany Park far upstream.
Found: 1996 Predator


Name: Watermark. 900m long.
Descrip: Long 8ft Rcp, eventually splits to 2x5ft'ers.
Feat: Very high watermark on walls suggest that the drain was submerged
for a good period.
Loc: Wetherill Park. Sydways: 270 N10
Acc: Northern side of Victoria St next t
[ Message over 64k, truncated. ]



The Gone List: A List of Drains/Tunnels/Structures/Bunkers/
Bridges that have been removed from the Known.Doc, due to
demolition, or adaptive reuse. A tome of greif!
However... some sites have been known to rise from death thru the
powers of the Collective Cave Clan or thru adaptive reuse that allows
continued exploration.
Otherwise R.I.P.
-----------------------------------------------------------------


Name: ABC Cavern
Descrip: 12 ft high cavity under the elevated carpark in the Abc's Ultimo
centre.
Feat: Lots of Rubble.
Loc: Ultimo 027 G04
Acc: From rail lines, climb downspot between carpark and building.
Access to railines, is up enbankment, next to green door on Ultimo
St.
Wet: Ankle after rain.
Int: Boring
Found: 1998 Diode
Final: Bulldozed in 2000 to build new carpark.



Name: Anthony Horden Blg.
Descrip: Old building, since demolished.
Feat: A whole city block of total architectural chaos.
Labyrinth of patchwork major alterations over many years. Many
seriously big "lost" spaces. Ballrooms, majestic staircases deep
in dust, obscure tennants buried deep in the warrens, antique
grillwork lifts, etc.
Never seemed to be able to find the same place twice.
Hist: Books have been written, I'm sure.
Is now the "World Square Hole"
Cond: Indescribable.
Loc: UBD 3/C5
Acc: For many years, when parts were in use, just walk in.
Later, during demolition, via hoardings.
Int: 9 : Gormenghast! (A book by Mervin Peak. Read it.)
Now: Is now the disused World Square Office Tower. See Known.Doc.
Todo: Oh, go and have a look.
Pred says: Incredible that such a valuable block... the whole
thing... is 40m deep hole. Maybe we could set up a rock climbing
gym there :) Anyway, so now they've opened a car park in it...
(1996)
Final: Is World Square Carpark and abandoned Office tower, which may in
time carry on the demolition tradition


Name (Old) AWA building
Descrip: Large, sprawling industrial/office bldg, totally empty. A
serious maze to get lost in. Mostly two levels.
Loc: [Sydway 235 M20] Corner Talavera and Lane Cove Rd, Nth Ryde.
Acc: Over gate in Talavera Rd. Open window at southern corner of
bldg, facing Lane Cove Rd.
Int: 1
Final: Demolished in 1999. Now Offices.


Name: Balmain Apprentice Training School, Rozelle.
Loc: Corner Buchanan/Hyam St. (On Same Ground as SOAP Factory)
Photos: A few
Interst: 2
Descrip: Three brick buildings with tiled roofs, two storey,
lotsa graff. Used as Engineers apprentice centre, run
appearedly by Unilever.
Feat: Hangmans noose in one room, old toilets, internal plant
growth.
Final: One is an info centre, the other a warehouse and the
other an indoor pool. Heritidge listed.


Name: Balmain power station.DEMOLISHED!!!!
Descrip: Disused coal fired power station, and coal conveyor
tunnels.
Feat: Very dramatic, but empty shell, still very worth,
probably the most damaged building, this side of Sydney.
Comprises of Turbine Hall, Boiler house, 2 coal tunnels, a Cable
tunnel, and various warehouses. Good view from roof.
Care: Rusted catwalk floor gratings-Major Danger, be very wary
of where you tread. Often used for filming purposes,
also inspected. No security anymore.
Hist: Built in 1936, in use for only 28 years, due to holdups
with turbine transport from the Uk during WW2, put to
disuse in 1976, gutted in 1993. Demolition commenced
March 1998, levelled in August 1998.
Loc: [Sydway 54 J16]
Acc: Various holes in fences around outer compound. Over
fence at bottom of Margret St on left side. Getting into
the building is a breeze, just walk thru one of the
dozens of holes, doors etc
Phot: Yes
Int: 6
Final: Is demolished. Shame to see such a handsome building
being replaced by shitty brick veneer Townhouses


Name: Balmain Power Station Cooling Tunnel
Descrip: Twin tunnel, 9ft high in about 4ft of water, around 250m
long. Filled In as of Dec '98
Feat: Huge, rusted doors, possible access to the flooded
underneath of the powerstation.
Loc: Rozelle.
Acc: Shaft is outside one of the front doors of the
powerstation, main, and bolted shut doors are 25m south of
the Iron Cove bridge.
Exit: Two other shafts exist but neither have ladders down.
Wet: Boat or up to waist.
Photos: Of outside.
Care: Structurally untrustworthy, gas possibly trapped in silt
at bottom.
Int: 2
Final: Gates at harbour still stand. Rest is filled in.

Name: BEST (Big Empty Space with Thieves)
Descrip: Abandonned Boral factory complex, with clock tower, silos
(sort of), offices, more broken glass than you ever saw before.
Vast warehouse at rear of lot, that has burnout tyre circles
on the floor.... way over in one corner.
While it lasts it might make a good Clan meeting place- has
lots of onsite parking, and even a vast supply of firewood.
Feat: Climbing the tower. 'Adjust' the Time on remaining clock face.
Care: Harmless.
Cond: Has been TOTALLY gutted and trashed.
Loc: 25 (? opposite #26) Ferndell St, Sth Granville.
UBD 62/o9, Sydways 292/Q1
Acc: Front gate is open. Walk right in. Security is highly unlikely.
Or drive in and park in the huge warehouse at rear.
Exit: Front gate again, or via bush at rear fence.
Wet: The roof leaks like a sieve, so if its night and raining the
offices are a dark, dripping warren of sodden carpets,
sagging false ceilings and broken glass. ie Perfect.
Int: The tower is good.
Found: 16/7/2000 Dirge, Ogre, Diode (during total lunar eclipse.)
Logged: Diode 19/7/2000
Todo: Go back in time and handle the 'Stalking the Thieves'
incident with some semblence of intelligence, stealth,
strategy and coordination. Fucked that right up, didn't we?
Also: Enter the locked 'Danger - no entry' building.
Final: Bulldozed mid 2001, clocktower may survive.


Name: Boral Refinery.
Descrip: Full scale oil refinery, abandoned due to old age.
Feat: Fractioning towers (climb them in a strong wind, watch
the tops sway).
Huge oil storage tanks (stairs up outside), basement
switch rooms, control rooms (pneumatic computers!),
pipes, pipes, pipes.
Care: Watchman in main admin blg.
Cond: Had commenced demolition (around 86?) but didn't seem to
be going very fast. Most untouched.
Loc: UBD 73/J8
Acc: Holes in cyclone fence along Botany Cemetary (best at
night).
Exit: Cemetary.
Int: 8
Final: Checked 1/8/92. Is now totally cleared and redeveloped
as warehouses.


Name: Bunnerong Power Station.
Descrip: Disused coal fired power station, since demolished.
Feat: "End of world" scene.
Loc: UBD 73/J7
Acc: Over fence into bush at cnr Military Rd & Prince of
Wales Dr.
Either round to Generator blg, or up hill to switch blg.
When Generator blg was there, could get through cable
tunnels into basement of switch blg via manhole.
Switch blg, though active, was always deserted (at
night).
Phot: Yes, also news clippings of final demolition: South.
Courier, 1/7/87.
Int: 8, due to demolition massive mechanical carnage.
Now: Gone (is bus depot). Switch building is still there, and
in use.
Note: See "Bumborah Pt" (#34) item later for related info.
Todo: Lift two manhole covers near Bumborah Pt tunnel hole.
Rappel up to cable tunnels.
Excavate possible underground cable tunnel near Bumborah
Pt shaft.
Predator says... I believe the switch building was flattened in
April 94.
Final: Massive wasteland, complete with wild dogs and a swamp.
One corner is the Botany Bus Depot.


Name: Camp Cove.
Descrip: WWII bunker at camp cove.
Feat: Old and dank, sealed air tight for 30 years,
two long tunnels, with many staircases, except the steps
have been removed. One tunnel eventually goes underwater,
the other ends at a bricked up doorway, two main rooms join
tunnels
Care: Don't get stuck in shaft.
Hist: Part of the net across the harbour defence in WWII.
Cond: Old, wet, stair slopes very slippery.
Loc: End of Pacific St Watsons Bay. 049 B04
Acc: On the west side of house there is a smashed slab of
concrete, remove this and the tin, wood under it.
Use a rope, with loops or a wire ladder to descend 5m shaft
into bunker. Make sure to put beams, plate and rubble back on
after as you could kill someone if they fell in.
Exit: Back up shaft.
Wet: If you wade into the flooded bit, otherwise no.
Int: Very Good
Found: 1999 Maddog
Final: Sealed with huge concrete slab, that is already overgrown with
grass-end of 2001. May yet get back onto active list.
You never know.


Name: Camperdown Velodrome.
Descrip: Disused Velodrome.
Feat: Nice place to hangout, or ride a bike. Invokes a very 1970s feel
Complete with lights, old ads, bleachers, rusty old commentary
platform. Has caused controversy, cos the local council
wont let the famous Dulich Hill Cycle club use it due to
supposed soil contamination.
Loc: Camperdown 064 M07
Acc: From the cnr of Salisbury and Cardigan Lanes walk up Salisbury
Lane to hole in fence.
Exit: Ditto.
Care: Dont stack on steep bits.
Int: Average.
Now: 2002 Being bulldozed.
Found: 2000 Siologen


Name: Cement Aust. Silos
Descrip: One big concrete silo, with eight adjoining metal silos.
Feat: Good view, machinery, 8 storeys high.
Loc: Pyrmont.
Acc: Under Glebe Isle expressway, on Bank St, opp Channel Ten
Station climb thru one of the many holes in fence.
Care: Avoid being seen while entering.
Int: 3
Final: Demolished 2000.


Name: Central Mail Exchange.
Descrip: Building in demolition, with amazing scenes in basement
levels and basement generator rooms.
Feat: Two huge diesel generators, switchroom, etc.
On one visit, lower levels were being flooded by broken
water main, below ground floors 2' deep in water,
waterfalls down stairwells generators and switchroom
(with panel lights on!) waist deep, etc.
Looked like demolition co turned on site water to settle
dust, but didn't check downstairs!
Hist: The central mail exchange was built to be a model of
automated mail sorting, but like any centralised
bureaucratic system, failed abysmally, due to breakdowns,
work stoppages and the silliness of carting all the mail
to one place, then out again. It was closed down and the
site sold.
Cond: Gone
Loc: UBD 3/L5-L6
Acc: Chalmers St.
Wet: K/W once, othertimes dry.
Int: 9 then (The Kraken Wakes!), now 1.
Now: New bld in progress, status of generator basement
unknown.
Todo: Weep.
Final: Toally gone. Replaced by newer Post Office.


Name: Coal Cliff mine tunnel
Descrip: A very old, disused mine access tunnel. Slopes down, eroded
floor, support timbers rotten, several collapsed roof sections.
Ends in silt blockage after about 100m. There is a concrete 2'
dia pipe going down it, and continuing thru silt. Pipe has some
holes in it, and there is a strong draft going down it (past
the silt tunnel blockage). The sign on the entrance warns you
may get lost, which sounded great to me. Too bad its blocked.
Care: Looks likely to cave in at any moment.
Loc: Wollongong Gregory's 16F3 (Same place as Coalcliff drain)
Acc: Up on the south bank of the creek at the exit of Coalcliff
drain.
Metal gate on entrance, may have padlock and chain.
Wet: No
Pred says: We went back to this and now everything's sealed tighter than
the fish's proverbial. The drain near this is quite good,
though the slide within is kinda difficult to deal with.
Upstream end comes out in the grounds of the Illawarra Coke Co .
Final: Filled in completely.


Name: CSR Refinery DEMOLISHED!!
Descrip: Remains of very excellent complex, that should be still there,
but for fuckhead, moneygrubbing capitalist fucks like Civil &
Civic.... !
Feat: Boilerhouse, gutted, 10 storeys, very industrial; lotsa
security.
Care: Security, same as Distillery.
History: Built 1880s, Set on fire twice, photographed extensivly by Max
Dupain, put to disuse in 1994, demolition started late 1996.
Cond: All gone.
Int: 5
Todo: Officially name Csr as patriotic traitors and sue Civil & Civic
for historical negligence.
Nostalgia: 3x 5 storey steam powered Shipping Cranes, Canite Building,
fully equipped Boilerhouse, Turbine hall containing 5
turbines, 7 storey extraction, refining & packaging plant, 7
storey high coal silos, half a km of storage area great fun,
spent 6 hours in there.
Acc: Around big fence at the bottom of Harris St, this takes you
right outside the Boilerhouse.
Loc: Harris St, Pyrmont.
Final: Townhouses


Name: Defiance Silos and Mill.
Descrip: Large Milling factory.
Feat: Tall Silos, extensive Mill, lotsa conveyors, warehouses, rooftops,
very confusing to get around, old admins, many staircases.
Loc: North Strathfeild. 274 M14
Acc: Under gate on Hamilton St East.
Exit: Various.
Care: Keep an eye out for security.
Cond: Recently disused, bad stench of rotten grain in Silos.
Photo: Yeup.
Int: Good
Now: Demolished in early 2002
Found: 2000 Hatchet


Name: Dulwich Hill Silos
Descrip: Big set of Silos next to a Flour Mill
Feat: Big Flour Mill, 9 storeys high, very good nick. 14 Storey
tall silos, with weird ladder system to top. Flooded basement,
good veiw from rooftop.
Loc: Dulwich Hill. 295 R11
Acc: From Davis St climb over wall at edge of bridge, walk down to
behind delivery shed. Open sliding wooden door. Once inside,
squeeze through gap next to enclosed conveyor, go up steps to
door and into bottom of Silos. To Get into flour Mill, try roller
door in yard, on Davis St side.
Care: Security are said to patrol.
Future: Slated to be converted into Sydneys first Silo Apartments.
Int: Very Good
Found: 2000 Assasin
Final: Late 2001: Turned into Silo apartments. Nice touch!


Name: Gasworks
Descrip: Massive stone building and various adjacent buildings.
Interesting underground tunnel running along behind sea
wall, had homeless person sleeping in it, so did not
explore full length.
Loc: UBD 11/G6
Acc: Could not get into main building. Did not try all sides.
Access to tunnel is via structure just around seawall
from Swoo exit.
Wet: No
Int: 6
Todo: Explore entire seawall tunnel.
Find access to building.
See where steps go from near Swoo change hole.
Follow 4' iron pipe from Swoo.
Pred says: The site is being rehabilitated (ie turned into
something ugly after they get all the iron carbonyl and
benzene and m-cresol out of the soil). This commenced
Dec 94. Status: Unknown, the Bboyz checked it out but
reported no constructional or other activity.
Prowler and I checked it in July 95 and a lot of the
land had been cleared but the gasworks remain.
Extra: Aug97. Most building demolished. Construction underway.
Final: Expensive Townhouses. Chimney still stands.


Name: Giles Gym.
Descrip: Disused gym.
Feat: Fully equipped work out gym, squash courts, aerobics rooms,
boxing gym and leisure room. Has lights, stereo, spa, 2 saunas,
toilets, bar. Is messy, but still cool. Possible new Sydclan Hq
now that the Silos are being demolished.
Loc: Coogee Sydways 78N20
Acc: Ask Ogre for new front door keys. Situated on cliff top, north end
of Coogee beach, up path from Beach Plaza or Beach st.
Hist: Popular gym that ran out of lease in 1995, was used as such from
late 1950's.
Care: Mind out for homeys, addicts etc.
Wet: Spa room and main hall have big holes in roofs. Only when it rains
Int: As a location: 5, as an HQ: 10.
Final: Levelled in 2000.


Name: Glass ball.
Descrip: Hollow ball on top of steeple, 2m dia. inside. Small room under
sphere with door to outside. Lean out and look down. Coloured
lights and switch in sphere -in use occaisionally
Loc: Sydney Tech College, Railway Square. [Sydway 65 G5].
Acc: Front door, old stairs in rear of bldg, top floor mens toilets,
exit to roof via cubicle window.Replace panes of toilet window
on leaving!
Eek!: Climb steel ladder on OUTSIDE of sphere and stand on top, Gunga
Din.
Extra: Lights are now in use at night.
Found: 1992 Diode
Now: Still possible? Dont think so.


Name: Glebe Island Silos
Descrip: Disused grain silo complex.
Feat: Views, machinery, stairs, heights. Top roof is 30 storeys up,
conveyor tunnel system at base, fire escape access, the open
cells (six open pits, each 20 storeys deep) accessable from
below(worlds largest megaphone-amazing echos). Think of the
Monolithic structures seen in the video game "Doom"
Loc: Large white building at North end of Glebe Island Bridge.
Somerville road, Rozelle.
Acc: Park on old Glebe Island Bridge, walk down road that passes
alongside Huge white and even Bigger Brown silo complex, north
of old bridge. Enter unlocked gate in hurricane fence. Head
down embankment on south side of white building. Access door is
on South-East side of building. Enter building and head for
north-west end where stairs can be found leading up.
Check out all accessible floors on the way.
Care: Adjacent brown building is manned. Do not enter. Avoid being
seen on west side of building. Roof has no safety railings, use
care when walking near edge. General Port security drive around
outer complex every 4 hours. No security in actual silos for
past two years(if ever).Silos sometimes used for filming.
Hist: Completed in 1926,used by Graincorp, annexe built in 1930's,
combined sugar and grain storage, extended in 1960s, Western
storage (used section) built in 1974, put to disuse in 1984.
Photos: Yes, see pics section of this log.
Todo: Get into locked ventilation tower and pump hall. Abseil into
the open pits.
Wet: No
Int: 10
Extra: The offices next to the Annexe cells are used by the Sydney Oil
Spill Emergency service, and to date no one there has bothered
about exploration of these Silos. All the lights in this
complex work, and can be turned on via switch boxes on each
level, use only if really needed.
S/// says: TO BE DEMOLISHED! in mid 1999. Will have scheduled date soon.
Final: Used as a burnout pad by Cave Clan, now used for storing Ex-Olympic
cars. Levelled and Tarmacked. Boo Hoo!


Name: Government Printing Building.
Descrip: Big office block, since disused, on its way towards redevelopment.
Feat: Parquetry floors, ballroom with big picture windows and balcony,
great views from rooftop, elevator rooms, old staircases,
partitions.
Loc: Ultimo 055 F20
Acc: From tunnel under Western Dist, just west of where the Dist crosses
Pyrmont St, climb around big fence using "I" beam to stand on.
Head over to end of building, climb up onto scaffold, make your way
up to the Ballroom Balcony.
Exit: So far, back the way you came.
Care: Security on site. Bags of asbestos lieing around.
Int: Very Good, amazing views.
Found: 2001 Siologen/Trioxide, but only after work had started, as noone
could ever get into it while it didnt have the scaffold.
Final: Converted into Yuppified apartments. If you see the Aussie film
"Risk" feat Bryan Brown. The whole film is set in the Ballroom.


Name: Monsanto-Chemplex
Descrip: Chemical factory.
Feat: T'was like a small city, over 60 separate buildings,
mainly warehouses, intermingling with driveways,
processing centres, power grids, admin buildings,
delivery docks and a massive pumping centre down near
the sea wall. 75% of stuff was just "left" there when it
shut down, giving it a very Ghost townish feel, Satanic
art show held there in late 1994 feat animal killings
and other atrocities. Used extensivly by skaters for
storing ramps, graff artists for practising peices and
potheads for choofing. Took nearly 4 hours to explore
fully.
Loc: Rozelle. Bordered by the harbour, Balmain High School,
Terry St and Margaret St.
Acc: Many holes in the fence.
Care: Chocas full of pcb, dioxins, amyl nitrates, arsenic,
lead and asbestos. Walker engineers took 2 years to
decontaminate the property when they bought it.
Hist: Was originally called Elliot Bros Chemicals in late
1920's. Bought by Chemplex in 1940's, which was taken
over by Monsanto in 1970's. Used for making Chemical
fertilizers, pesticides and Defoliants (Agent Orange).
Shut down suddenly and inexplicably in 1990. Demolished
in 1996.
Final: Mega fuckin Walker wank.(Townhouses).
Int: 10


Name: Party Room
Descrip: Small reservoir, 8ft high, 50ft square.
Feat: Why is this here?
Loc: Ultimo
Acc: Hinged Grille in grassy part of plaza opp. Syd Tech. on Mary
Ann St
Wet: 1 inch
Exit: none
Int: 3
Final: Filled in, or something.


Name: Potts Hill Reservoir Tunnel
Descrip: 12ft dia rcp tunnel that runs along the floor of the no.1
Potts Hill Reservoir, an enormous lake, since put to empty
disuse. The tunnel however was only empty for repairs.
Feat: Tunnel looks like a large snake, running on the floor of the lake.
Pretty big, about 300m long, with inlet valves along its length
a well as big gates at either end.
Loc: Potts Hill 293 K08
Acc: Climb fence in reserve, south side of Lewis St, near western kink.
walk over pipeline bridge, to dirt road, walk south up road to
reservoir. Follow reservoir perimeter east, then south until
you reach a ladder down. Once in lake, walk towards large tank
situed near NE cnr, walk around this to hole in tunnel.
Exit: Out any open valves.
Int: Good
Photos: Yes
Found: 2001 Siologen
Final: Apparently, the lake is still empty, but the tunnel is full of
conveyed water. The same source that told me abnout the tunnel
being
empty for repairs told me this so...


Name: Power House Museum
Descrip: Old power station where PH Museum is now.(converted in
1983)
Loc: UBD 3/E2
Acc: From rail line.
Feat: Flooded central open basement levels (DEEP pool),
overhead crane.
Now: Does not exist as such. Crane visible in main hall of
museum.There was an underwater tunnel from this building
to the harbour, used for cooling water. Don't know if
any of it is still there, or whether access still
possible.
Final: Is Power House Museum.


Name: Pyrmont Flour Mill.
Descrip: Edwin Davies and Sons Flour Mill, abandoned.
Feat: Some machinery, old wooden creaky floors, 5 levels. Lights turn
on at night thanks to automated Sydney Electricity box.
Loc: North end Jones Lane, Pyrmont. 055 D20
Acc: Thru hole in wire fence, then open small door in rollerdoor. If
this is locked, then proceed to the Eastern side of the
building where a wooden double door can be found. The palings
of this door can be removed easily and squeeze thru. Dark at
night in some floors.
Exit: Back the way you came.
Wet: dry.
Int: Average
Found: 1997 Ogre
Final: Gutted. To become Townhoses with facade preserved.


Name: Pyrmont Power Station
Descrip: Large old power station, in process of demolition.
Feat: Massive spaces, swiss cheese floors due to removed
stuff, excellent view from roof.
Care: Asbestos, watchmen, falling through black holes in floor
in dark while being stingy with torch light.
Loc: UBD 6/M9
Acc: Via disused rail cutting next to Jones Bay Rd, under
road bridge, over fence into power stn at its northern
corner (behind bushes).There is a gap in the barbed wire
here.
Phot: On roof, at night, not very good.
Int: 8
Now: Gone!
Extra: "Large old Power Station" should be "Fucking
MASSIVE old power station". Photos of this place in its
full state show it to be at least 25 storeys high with
30 storey chimneys on top. It took up 5 city blocks.
Final: Demolished, is Star City Casino.


Name: Soap Factory,(UniLever) Rozelle.
Descrip: Abandoned Soap Factory
Loc: Corner Buchanan/Hyam St. (Same ground Balmain Apprentice
Training Sc)
Acc: Jump the fence anywhere around the complex.
Feat: Very freaky old building sitting in a big wasteland.
Building was the central processing plant for the
Unilever factory. 4 storeys high and rectangular in
shape, full of smashed windows, small silos and rubble.
Not overly interesting to explore, more a visual treat
for those who like looking at buildings that nightmares
could be made of. Known by local kids/teens as "Freddys
House"
Care: Many rotten floors, asbestos.
Int: 5 cos its so scary looking.
Hist: Was previously surrounded by tanks, towers, conveyors
and warehouses. Now sits alone apart from heritidge
listed Apprentice Training School.
Final: Is townhouses with commemorative 6ft rcp drain
underneath property.








Sydney Location list. Shortened Version.
WITH FORMATTING FIXED(HOPEFULLY)
Completley rewritten, corrected, edited, updated and converted
(from Corel Word to Text) By Siologen (So stop fucking whining!)
See Known. Doc for more detail.
This version of the States.Txt has had the most boring locations removed.
Locations found By THE CAVE CLAN, between 1989-2001
Updated last: Tuesday 7th May 2002.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DRAINS___V

KEY:
NAME: Location Name.
HGT: Entrance Height. In Feet.
B: Gets bigger? N: No. Y:Yes.
SUBURB: Suburb located in.
W: Is entrance Wet? N: No. A: Ankle. S: Shin. K: Knee. B:Boat. T:
Tidal
LOCATION: Location description.
MAP: Sydways, Wollongong Gregorys or Ubd Newcastle Street Directory
Co-ordinates.
X: Exit? N: NO. E: Ends/Opens out. G: Grille. M: Manhole.
I: Interest. B:Boring. A:Average. G:Good. V:Very Good. E:Excellent.

Multiple entries are shown for tunnels that are hard to get into.
Some drains may require tide charts, manhole keys in order to explore.
Flooding drains are fun, when you've got an Explorer 100/200.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
STORM DRAINS/WATER SUPPLY/SEWER OVERFLOWS/WATER COOLING TUNNELS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
NAME HGT B SUBURB W LOCATION MAP X
I
------------ --- - -------- - ------------------------------------ ------ -
-
ABYSS....... 6.0 N N CREMOR N Opp. cnr Fall St & Grafton St....... 036N18 G
A
ACER BATS... 6.0 Y MAQUARIE A From Acer Carpk, nr Christie St..... 235G15 N
A
AMAROO...... 6.0 N GEORGESH N In Amaroo Reserve, George Hall...... 292F16 N
A
ANOTHER..... 5.6 N OATLEY.. N Moore Res., W Oatley Bay............ 334P09 N
B
ANZAC '91... 6.0 Y BEXLEY.. N Canal nr Louis & Croydon Rds, go d/s 315E14 Y
A
ANZAC '91 FO 7.0 N BEXLEY.. N Same canal as Anzac 91, go upstream. 315C15 G
B
ANZAC '98... 6.0 Y EASTWOOD N Jim Walsh Pk, off Balaclava Rd...... 254N01 E
G
APOLLO...... 6.0 N MAQUARIE A NE cnr Wicks & Waterloo Rds Intersec 255N02 E
A
ARCHIBOWL... 6'0 Y HOMEBUSH N P'Matta Rd, opp"Selwyn St"over fence 274L17 E
A
AUTOBAHN.... 7.0 N PADSTOW. N E end Bryant St, empties in mangrove 313L11 G
A

B'TOWN CAGE. 6.0 Y BANKSTOW N Follow Canal u/s from North Terrace. 313J01 G
G
THE BASIN... VAR N SYDENHAM A Follow Railway Pde LaneNE along rail 074L17 N
A
BATCAVE..... 10. Y ALLAMBIE N From NW end of Clearview Pl, up path 238M09 E
G
BEADS....... 7.0 Y LIDCOMBE N South end of Wyatt Pk, left drain... 273L15 E
A
THE BISHOP.. 1.0 Y BALMAIN Y Thru hatch, E end of Darling St..... 055D12 N
V
BLACKWATTLE. 5.0 Y ULTIMO.. S Nw of cnr Pyrmont Br Rd & Wattle St. 055C20 G
E
BLACKTOWN... 10. N BLACKTWN A Starts Richmond Rd, W of Curren Rd.. 230B09 N
G
BLKTWN WORKR 6.0 Y BLACKTWN N Op Blcktown Workers Club,ReservoirRd 250F07 E
A
BRAMS HATCH. 5.7 Y DEE WHY. N Up Canal, Sth side Richmond Ave..... 239G05 E
A
BRONTE...... 6.0 N BRONTE.. N Down Steps from Murray St........... 078P11 N
B
BRONTE #2... 5.9 N BRONTE.. A N end of Bronte Beach............... 078P11 N
B

THE CANNON.. 8.0 N WAKELEY. A From E end Dyer Cl,drain off canal.. 290N01 N
A
CECILIA..... 7.0 N CASULA.. N In land opp Burmah, Campbelltown Rd. 329Q01 N
A
CECIL HILLS. 10. N ABBOTBRY A Canal in CalmsleyHill City Farmonmap 269G19 E
V
CECIL HILLS. 8.0 Y CECIL PK A SE Elizabeth Dr nr Duff Rd,liftplate 288N07 E
V
CENTENNIAL#1 5.6 N CENTENPK N Cnr Darcey & Anzac & Alison......... 076Q12 N
B
CENTENNIAL#3 5.6 N CENTENPK B Lake nr Lang Rd Entrance............ 067F10 N
B
CENTENNIAL#4 5.0 N CENTENPK N In canal nr cnr Musgrave and Avoca.. 077G12 G
B
CENTENNIAL#5 5.0 Y CENTENPK K In canal next to Nth end Alison Rd.. 076R13 E
B
CHARITY CK.. 10. N MEADOWBN N Nxt to servo Victoria Rd,nr Falconer 254N14 E
V
CHEESEGRATER 7.0 Y PARRAMAT T Down lane opp. McDonalds, Hassel St. 253C17 E
G
CHICKENPOX.. 15. N HORNSBY. N Off trail,from Burdett and King kink 215F04 E
G
CHIMNEY..... 6.0 N LIDCOMBE N P'matta Rd opp. Gallipoli St, grille 274B12 E
A
CHLORINATED. 6.0 N BAULKHAM N On Windsor Rd opp Roxborough Pk Rd.. 232F06 G
B
CLIPPINGS... 6.0 N GYMEA... N Cnr President and Nth West Arm...... 254N13 E
B
CLOGGED CLAM 7.0 Y DOUBLEBY T Kiaora Rd,near int w/ New Sth HeadRd 067G02 E
G
COALCLIFF... 9.0 Y COALCLIF N W of PattersonRd&Lawrence HargraveDr WG16F3 E
E
COCKTHORPE.. 6.0 N AUBURN.. N 200m u/s of Ghost Train, on right... 273J16 N
B
COOK RIVER.. 8.0 Y CAMPSIE. T West of Burwood Rd bridge over river 295E13 G
G
CRASHOUT.... 6.0 Y ALEXANDR N Fire Stn carpk, Cnr Wyndhan & Bourke 075G14 G
G
CXIV........ 10. N MERRYLND N U/s sth side Mcfarlane,nr Pitt Inter 272J04 N
V
CYCLEWAY.... 8.0 Y CHERRYBK A Cnr Hillgate Pl & Woodgrove Rd...... 213F15 E
V

DARLING HARB 5.0 Y SURRYHIL N M/H, NW cnr Eddy Ave & Elizabeth Sts 028J04 G
E
DARLING HARB 9.0 Y HAYMARKT T Grille, under Monorail Stn, Quay St. 027G02 M
E
DARLING HARB 14. N DARLINGH B Outlet, under wharf,W of Imax Theatr 025G20 G
E
DEBRIS...... 6.0 Y DULWICHH N U/s Ewart St, under rail,nr Ewart Ln 295R16 E
A
DIODEDOX.... 8.0 N ARTARMON S Foll canalu/s fromSw cnr ArtarmonRes 035B13 G
G
D.T.R.T..... 5.6 N WAVERTON T W end John St,in shore,E side of bay 045F05 G
G

EEL PIT..... 8.0 N KINGSFRD A Cnr Issac-Smith&Gardners, Golf CarPk 317P03 E
G
ENFEILD..... 7.0 N ENFEILD. A Nr Cnr Sylvanus & Drone Sts......... 294F14 E
A
EPHEMERIS... 5.8 Y ALLAMBIE N 30m S down CondamineRd fromExtension 238P13 N
G
ETERNITY.... 5.8 Y MEADOWBK T Off Canal, Meadowbank Pk,nr TennisCt 254L15 G
E
ETERNITY.... 14. N MEADOWBK A Grille, in Pk, opp. sth end Mons Ave 254L15 G
E
ETERNITY.... 10. Y DENISTON S Grille, in West Pde,200m S ofRailStn 254M08 E
E
EXTENSION... 6.0 Y ALLAMBIE N On Condamine Rd, 50m S of Pittwater. 283P13 E
E
EYES........ 6.0 Y BASS HLL N Carysfeild Pk,LiverpoolRd,oppMcDnlds 292K09 G
G

FAT TULIP... 7.0 Y HILLSDAL A Foll Canal u/s from cnrDenison&Perry 317R18 E
G
THE FENCE... 15. N HOMEBUSH N P'Matta Rd opp. Bedford Rd.......... 274H15 E
A
FISHIES 1ST. 8.0 N BEXLEY N N D/s canal from Kingsgrove Ave Res... 315E08 N
G
FORMWORK.... 6.0 N W MERRYL N Reserve off Leeton St............... 271Q02 G
A
THE FORTRESS 6.0 Y MAROUBRA N M/H, in gutter, W end of Keating St. 318G07 M
E
THE FORTRESS 8.0 Y MAROUBRA N M/H, in Quarry Res, off Moverly Rd.. 318J07 M
E
THE FORTRESS 5.0 Y MAROUBRA S Grille, in NE cnr Garden & Gale Sts. 318F08 M
E
THE FORTRESS 6.0 Y MAROUBRA T Outlet, down steps, Waterside Ave... 318N08 M
E

GHOST TRAIN. 6.0 Y LIDCOMBE N S end of Wyatt Pk, right hand drain. 273L15 E
A
GOBBLEDOX... 12. Y NAREMBRN A E end of Park Rd under Willoughby Rd 035E13 E
V
GRAVELSOX... 7.0 N CAMMERAY A In Tunks Pk, under Suspension Bridg. 036K15 E
A
GREENDALE CK 6.0 N BROOKVLE N 188 Harbord Rd, go u/s in canal..... 239C11 G
A
GRID........ 6.0 Y MARRICKV N Opp Anzac Club on Garners Ave....... 073G16 E
A

HASSEL ST... 8.0 N HARRISPK N Cnr Parkes and Station St........... 080Q17 E
A
HAVYATTS.... 6.0 Y DOUBLEBY A Off Canal, SE Cnr Carlotta & Kaiora. 067G03 E
V
HAWKERSFOLLY 7.0 N N CREMOR N In seawall,E end of bay, nr Wonga St 036E17 E
A
HERCS PILLAR 6.0 Y MAQUARIE N D/s canal,NE of M2 crossing Wicks Rd 255N02 E
E

K-MART...... 10. N FAIRFLD, A West side of Fairlight Ave, off kink 291L02 E
V

THE LOAF.... 9.0 Y STANMORE N Down canal from W end of Cardigan Pl 064N05 E
G
LOVERS...... 6.0 N REVESBY. N W end of park, off Montgommery Ave.. 313D11 G
A

MAQUARIE.... 9.0 N MAQUARIE N Waterloo Rd, opp. Maquarie Centre... 235H18 E
A
MAGICSLINEAR 8.0 Y HORNSBY. A In bush, nr ChickenPox, See KnownDoc 215F03 M
V
THE MAW..... 12. N FAIRFLDE A East end of Knight Park............. 272E19 E
G
MIDNIGHTEXPR 5.9 Y GREYSTNE N 100m S of Dahlia St on Maquarie Rd.. 271E03 E
A
MILSONS PARK 9.0 N N SYDNEY A In park, cnr Hipwood & Bradly....... 046L06 G
E
MILSONS PARK 6.0 Y N SYDNEY N Grille,nr cnr Spring St & Lit.Spring 046J04 E
E
MISGUIDED... 6.0 N MERRYLND N Rect drain,20m d/s of 20 Crescent St 272N01 G
A
MOUNT DRUITT 6.0 Y MT DRUIT A Kurrajong between SunbestCres inters 228D14 G
G
MR I'S VESTI 3.0 Y GLEBE... N Under Booth St bridge ov JohnstonsCk 064N08 N
A
MUFFLERCLICH 9.0 N GREYSTNE A Up trail from Youth Cntr,W Hyland Rd 270N03 G
G
MULLETDOX... 7.0 N ARTARMON N Follow path from E end ChelmsfordAve 035C12 E
A

NIGHTVISION. 5.0 Y GREYSTNE N In bushes 30mS of Cnr Britton&LongSt 271E09 G
G
1924........ 6.0 Y DULWICHH A Ewart St nr Ewart Lane.............. 295R16 E
A
NORTHSIDE... 40. Y CAMMERAY A Door in Cliff,E end Bay,off Brothers 036N15 ?
E

OASIS....... 8.0 Y FAIRLGHT N West end of Manly West Pk........... 258Q01 E
G
OGRES HOVEL. 6.0 N PADDINGT T Cnr Bayswater and Neild, RH Drain... 067A01 E
A

PADDED ROOM. 12. Y WENTWTHV N Creek opp hospital on Darcy Rd d/s.. 252E10 E
G
PENITENTIARY 5.8 Y GREYSTNE N U/s canal, 20m W Britton&Long,LDrain 271E09 G
G
PENRITH..... 8.0 N PENRITH. N S of rail crossing over PeachTree Ck 225G08 G
V
PERSEVERANCE 6.0 N PADSTOW. N 43 Arab Rd.......................... 313J13 G
A
PETE'S...... 8.0 N OATLEY.. N W end of Morshead Dr, near wharf.... 334N04 E
G
PHAT EGO.... 8.0 N FAIRFLDE N SW cnr Knight Pk, under Fairfeild St 272C19 E
G
PREDATORS... 6.0 Y MARRICKV N Kink in Sydney Steel Rd............. 074M16 N
G
PROWLERS.... 6.0 Y PADSTOW. N Near where Short and Gow Sts join... 313L08 E
G
PUMPING STN. 7.0 Y ALEXANDR A 163 Wyndham St...................... 075G13 M
A
PURGATORYS T 12. N GREYSTNE N 50m N of Dahlia and Maquarie, in Res 271F03 E
V

QUAINT...... 6.0 N LILYFLD. N U/s small canal,fr Brennan St bridge 054K20 E
A
QUEENS...... 9.0 N ASHFEILD N E end Queen St on int. w/Croydon Rd. 295J02 G
A

RANGERS..... 5.8 Y EPPING.. N E endof Edna May Hunt Res, nr rail.. 234K20 E
A
ROCKTOP..... 9.0 Y MARRICKV N Over fence,between 5 & 7 Malakoff St 316D02 E
V
ROOKWOOD.... 9.0 Y LIDCOMBE N SE cnr Philips Pk................... 273R14 E
A
ROOSTERS EGG 7.0 Y SYDENHAM N At cnr of Railway Pde & Sydenham Rd. 074L17 E
G
RUSHCUTTERS. 14. N RUSHCUTT T SW cnr of Rushcutters Bay Pk........ 067A01 N
V

SCORPIONS... 8.0 N BONDIBCH A Gril nr Skate ramp,nr carpk, onBeach 069B07 N
V
SHEAS CK.... 6.0 N ALEXANDR N W of carpk, NW cnr Sydney Pk & Rd... 075B15 E
G
SIN CITY.... 5.0 Y BEVERLYH N Cnr Egbaston and Melvin Sts......... 314K15 E
A
SOFT TOFFI.. 8.5 N KINGSGRV N Under Kingsgrove Rd, N of Commercial 315B09 E
G
STRATHFEILD. 6.0 N STRATHFE N Cnr Pilgrim & Elva Sts, LH drain.... 274P19 G
A
THE SUMP.... 6.0 Y MALABAR. A M/h next to Anzac Rifle Bunker tower
SURPRISE.... 8.0 Y MORTDALE N Behind Club, Cnr DepotRd & RobertAve 334E03 E
G
SWOO........ 5.0 Y WOLLSTNE N Down Stairs, cnr Ivy & Rocklands.... 045D02 G
E
SYDNEY...... 12. N DARLINGH B West of Darl Harb Drain under Wharf. 025F25 M
V
SYDNEY...... 8.0 Y DARLINGH K Mh in bushz,50m E of Peir&Darling Dr 027F01 E
V
SYDNEY SLIDE 6.0 Y MOSMAN.. N NE cnr of Reid Pk................... 047C02 E
G

TANK STREAM. 6.0 N SYDNEY.. N M/h se cnr of Curtin Pl&Hamilton.... 026J16 N
E
TAVERN...... 6.0 N ST LEONA A Under Apartments, Talus St Res...... 035D15 E
A
THREE PITS.. 7.0 N SYDNEHAM N 10m NE of The Basin................. 074L17 E
A
TIN WHISTLE. 7.0 N ROOTYHIL N 300m NE of Rooty Hill Station....... 229C16 E
A
TRANSGRINDER 5.0 Y SYDNEY.. B Base of Sydney Opera Hse,nr NavLight 024M12 M
E
TRANSGRINDER 7.0 Y SYDNEY.. A M/h Young St, E footpath, outsideAMP 024K15 E
E
TREACHEROUS. 7.0 ? COOGEE.. A Base of cliffs,200m N of CoogeeBeach 078N19 ?
V
TURDGRINDER. 14. ? LEURA... A Right at bottom off Cliff Rd........ 448R14 N
V

VAULT....... 8.0 N DOUBLEBY N U/s Canal,cnr Kaiora Rd & ClarencePl 067H04 E
A

WASTELAND... 6.0 Y MASCOT.. A S of rd joining Gen Holmes &BotanyRd 317D06 M
A
WATERMARK... 8.0 N WETHERIL A Victoria Rd next to RTA............. 270N10 N
A
WATERSHIPDWN 7.0 Y HELENSBU N W cnr of Metropolitan Colliery...... WG1E04 E
V
WHITE BAY... 4.0 Y ROZELLE. N Robert St opp. Power Station........ 054N16 E
B
WHITES CREEK 6.3 Y ANNANDLE N West end of Wisdom St............... 064K03 N
A
WINDOWVILLE. 8.0 Y MERRYLND N 100m d/s of CXIV.................... 272K04 E
G
WIRED....... 7.0 N MARRICKV N Kink in Sydney Steel Rd, Rh drain... 074M16 E
A
WORMHOLE.... 10. N BANKSTWN N Cnr Raymond and East Terrace........ 313L01 E
A

YODAS DEN... 6.4 Y COOGEE.. A Dolphin St,5m W of Brook, Nxt TenCrt 078L19 G
V
YOUR TAXES.. 10. Y WOMBARRA N Distant grille, Nth end of Pit Rd... WG2H14 G
E
YOUR TAXES.. 50. N WOMBARRA S Walk 200mN along Beachfrom MonashAve WG2K14 G
E

ZEUSS....... 6.0 N MAQUARIE A NE cnr Wicks & Waterloo Rds Intersec 255N02 E
A

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TUNNELS___V

KEY:
T: Type: T: Train. E: Electricity. A: Aircon. N: Natural Cave. P: Pipeline.
C: Conveyor. M: Mine.
X: D: DOOR. G GATE.

These location are sometimes fairly hard to get into, involving various
methods not mentioned in this list. See Known Doc for details.
Most of these locations are fairly risky. Take precautions.
These involve involve dodging trains, cops and seccers.....sometimes.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ELECTRICITY/TRAIN/CONVEYOR/AIRCON/PIPELINE TUNNELS/MINES/CAVES
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
NAME HGT T SUBURB W LOCATION MAP X
I
------------ --- - -------- - ------------------------------------ ------ -
-
BLOWJOB 2000 30. T WOOLOOMO N 30m upEastSubTunfromSirJohnYoungCres 026M18 N
E
BONDI GHOST. 30. T WOOLHARA N Over fence onE side Weeroona,up tunn 067F05 N
E
BROOKLYN.... 30. T BROOKLYN N Follow railway to LongIsle, on Eside 137Q12 E
B
BUSHRANGERS. 20. N MTVICTOR N Follow zigzag at end Kanimbla VallRd 443B01 N
G
BUNNERONG... 9.0 E MATRAVIL N Behind sthern Cremetorium,MilitaryRd 338A03 N
G

CAHILL...... 7.0 E SYDNEY.. N Cnr MaquarieSt and Cahill Expressway 026L16 E
A
CITY CIRCLE. 30. T SYDNEY.. N East end of Circular Quay Station... 024L14 E
V

DOMAIN...... 10. E WOOLOOMO N Green box next to EastDist in Domain 026M17 N
E

EASTERN SUBS 30. T ERSKINVL N Down tunn from Railway Pde,opp.Clara 075B11 E
V
EYEOFTHENEED 14. E ULTIMO.. S Plate in compound,SE end Bijou Ln... 027G04 E
V

GLEBE RAIL.. 30. T GLEBE... N Up tunnel nr cnr Victoria & Maxwell. 064P01 E
A
GLEN DAVIS.. ... M CAPERTRE ? In Glen Davis Valley................ ...... ?
?
GREENICH.... 12. E GREENICH N Huge M/h in Manns Pt Pk, off Prospect045A06 N
E

HALLOWEEN HL 18. C WAVERTON N W side of Balls Head Dr, over fence. 045D06 E
G
HELENSBURGH. 25. T HELENSBR N Thru Hut in kink of Tunnel Rd....... WG1C02 E
G

LABYRINTH... 8.0 E STRATHFE N W side, kink in Cooper St (West).... 274P18 N
G
LAVENDER BAY 30. T LAVENDBY N 400m W along raillines from LunaPark 045H06 E
A
LOST MINE... 6.0 N CENTRAL. A End of the SE tunn in Ghost Platform 028J04 N
V

MARTIN PLACE 9.0 A SYDNEY.. N Opp. Hospital on HospitalRd,inDomain 026L17 N
E
METROPOLITAN 25. T HELENSBR B Kink in Tunnel Rd opp.HelensburghTun WG1C02 N
A
MINI DIPPER. 7.0 P HOMEBUSH N Under Homebush Dr, on P'Matta Rd.... 274F14 N
A
NEWNES CHASM 80. N LITHGOW. ? Use local Tourist Map............... ...... E
G
NORTHSIDECON 12. C MANLY... K Se of Carpk off Carey St, LitManlyPt 260F10 ?
G

OTFORD...... 25. T OTFORD.. N Follow ChellowDeneAve, take RH Rd... WG1J13 E
V

REDFERN RAIL 9.0 T REDFERN. S Under old Hut in RailyardE of Holden 065F07 E
A

ST MICHAELS. 30. N AVALON.. N Down track from Watkins Rd.......... 180H10 N
A
ST JAMES NTH 30. T SYDNEY.. N Go north from Plat. 1,thruSlitinwall 026L18 G
E
ST JAMES NTH 30. T SYDNEY.. N Walk up tunnel from Circ Quay, 1am.. 024L14 N
E
ST JAMES STH 30. T SYDNEY.. A Tunnel under station from North end. 026L19 N
E
ST JAMES STH 30. T SYDNEY.. A Go Sth up tunn from Plat 2,over gate 026L19 N
E

TRAM TUNNELS 30. T THEROCKS N At sth end of Harbour Br ped.walkway 056J13 G
V
TWIN PITS... 14. A SYDNEY.. N Grille, Botanic Gdn,Opp StateLibrary 026L16 D
V
TWIN PITS 2. 14. A SYDNEY.. N Grille,cnr Maquarie & Conservatorium 024L15 D
V

ULTIMO...... 30. R ULTIMO.. N Over fence, Se end of Bijou Lane.... 027G04 E
B
UNSW........ 10. E KENSINGT N In Uni Grounds, See Known Doc....... 077B19 E
E

WHAT?....... 7.0 P HOMEBUSH N 250m West of MiniDipper on P'mattaRd 274F14 M
A
WHITE BAY... 12. E ROZELLE. B In Pwr Station Grounds, nr Robert St 054N17 N
E
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BRIDGES___V

KEY: Same as DRAINS except:
L: Locked: Y:Yes. N: No. /: Not Relevant, other way in.

Bridges are sometimes padlocked. What can YOU do?
Go to your local Hardware Store. "Shop smart, Shop S-Mart"


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BRIDGES
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
NAME HGT B SUBURB L LOCATION MAP X
I
------------ --- - -------- - ------------------------------------ ------ -
-
ALFORDS PT.. 7.0 Y ALFORDSP / Abseil off platform & Se end of Br.. 333H06 N
G
ANZAC....... 40. Y PYRMONT. Y Jimmy Door in E Pylon Base, Bank St. 055A18 N
E

CAPTAIN COOK 35. N SAN SOUC Y Door in abutment, North end......... 335N19 N
G
THE COMB.... 4.0 N DARLINGH N Bathurst nr ParkRoyal hotel......... 025G20 N
B
COMO RAIL... 12. N COMO.... / Into Girders via gantry, wind out... 335C15 E
G
CONC. TIMTAM 5.0 N SYDNEY.. N Above substation, W end King St..... 025G18 N
A

DOPPELGANGER 9.0 N WYONG... Y Old Pacific Hwy CrossesSyd-NewcasFwy ...... N
G

GLADESVILLE. 20. N HUNTLEYP Y Hatch in Lower arch,off HuntleysPtRd 043B05 N
E

LENNOX...... 7.0 N PARRAMAT / Dig out block at NendE side,ChurchSt 080N13 N
E
LODE RUNNER. 6.0 Y HUME FY. Y Where Fwy goes up BIG hill heading S ...... N
V

MEADOWBANK.. 12. N MEADOWBN Y Sth of the Sth end of Bank St....... 254N17 N
G
MR INDIAS... 12. Y WYONG... / Walk from lookout, squeeze thru gap. ...... N
E

ONEEYEDPYTHO 6.0 N WOOLOOMO / M/h top of WendRailViaduct,NrArtGall 026M18 N
A

PHEASNTSNEST 9.0 Y PICTON.. Y 3km S Wilton Rd,on HumeHwy,HatchNend ...... N
E
PREDATORS... 8.0 N ARTARMON N Where Railway crosses Gore Hill Fwy. 035C12 E
A
POWDERBOX... 6.0 N ULTIMO.. N Cnr Pyrmont St and Camden St........ 025F20 N
A

7 DWARVES... 15. N SYDNEY.. / M/h NE end whereCahill ExpXsMaquarie 024L14 G
A
SILVERWATER. 7.0 Y SILVERWT / Thru drain, under gate, Nth side.... 253Q18 N
G
SYDNEY HARBO ... . N SYDNEY / Hatch between rails, N end,down stai 046K09 N
E
SYDNEY(KURSK 8.0 Y N SYDNEY / -rs,up inside girder,thru hatchattop 046K09 N
E
SYDNEY UNDER 9.0 N THEROCKS / Squeeze around door, nr NW Pylon.... 024J11 E
E
SUSPEN PYLON 14. N CAMMERY. / Thru window,S ofMiller&TheBoulevarde 036K15 N
A
SUSPEN TOWER 7.0 Y CAMMERY. N Thru hatch, tower underpass, SW cnr. 036K15 N
V

TARBAN CK... 5.0 Y HUNTERSH N Thru any open hatch W of HuntleyPtRd 043B03 N
V
TOM UGLYS... 7.0 N BLAKEHUR Y Hatch in NE Abuttment............... 335H17 N
G

THE WEDGE... 5.0 Y WOOLOOMO N M/h NE cnr where Art Gall RdXsCahill 056N17 N
B
WESTERN DIST 6.0 N ULTIMO.. N Undo bolts,hatches above Bulwarra Rd 025E20 N
A
WET P.DRY P.
WHATSHALLWE. 4.0 N ULTIMO.. N 200m E of Wattle Cres, undo bolts... 055D20 N
A
WORONORA.... 12. N WORONORA N Thru Exp gap, NW end................ 353R06 N
V
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BUNKERS___V

KEY: Same As for DRAINS, except:
X: M:Many exits

Getting to Bunkers usually involves a bit of bush bashing. Wtch out for
Ticks
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
PRE WWI/WWI/WWII/BUNKERS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
NAME HGT B SUBURB W LOCATION MAP X
I
------------ --- - -------- - ------------------------------------ ------ -
-
ANZAC RIFLE. 9.0 Y MALABAR. A E end Fishermans Rd, head E then NE. 338Q01 E
G

BANKSTOWN... 3.0 Y CONDELLP N Contact owner thru C.C, under house. 293B20 N
E
BARBETTE.... 6.0 Y GEORGESH N Bush bash NW from Nend ChowderBay Rd 048M03 N
V

DIRGES...... ... . COMMODOR N Ask Maddog.......................... 059M08 M
G

FLAGSTAFF PT 7.0 Y WOLLONGN N Nr to Lighthouse cnrEndeavour&Marine WG7G07 N
A
F.Y.T.O..... ... . WATSONBY N Ask Maddog.......................... ...... N
G

GEKO........ 12. N WATSONBY N 20m Sth of South head Lighthouse.... 049D01 N
V
GROTTO PT... 13. N GEORGESH N Follow trail 200m S Govenors Rd,on R 038P18 E
E

HENRY'S HEAD 8.0 Y LAPEROUS N Nxt to Lighthouse, end of fire trail 338E15 E
G
HILL 60..... 9.0 Y PT KEMBL N In Res @ Eend Military Rd,nr CoastGd W11F09 E
V
HOWIE'S..... 8.0 Y LAPAROUS N West of Pistol Range, over hill..... 338J12 E
G
HYPE'S...... ... . PT STEVN . Tommoree Head....................... ...... .
.

MADDOG'S.... 9.0 Y WATSONBY N Sth of Geko, over fence............. 049D01 N
G
MIDDLEHEAD#1 8.0 Y GEORGESH N E of the Sth end of Chowder Bay Rd.. 048M03 N
A
MIDDLEHEAD#2 10. N GEORGESH N 200m N of Mid Hd #1 EsideChowderBay. 048M03 N
G
MIDDLEHEAD#3 7.0 Y GEORGESH N "1872" door off Chowder Bay Rd...... 048M03 N
V
MIDDLEHEAD#4 VAR . GEORGESH K Follow E road past Govenors rd...... 038Q18 N
V
MIDNIGHTSHAF 9.0 N VAUCLUSE N Abseil off cliff E of Maquarie Rd... 049F10 N
V

NOBBYS HEAD. 8.0 N NEWCAS E N NE side of point, N end of Nobbys Rd N20A10 N
G
NTH HEAD EL. 9.0 N MANLY... N Off cliff, trail, E end N HeadScenic 259L16 N
G
NTH HEADFORT 9.0 Y MANLY... N Jump over wall at E end N HeadScenic 259L15 N
E

PISTOL RANGE 8.0 Y LAPAROUS N 100m S of Pistol Range,LaParouseGolf 338K13 N
A

QUARANTINE.. 8.0 . MANLY... . Abseil cliff 200m Sof Quarantine Stn 259F15 N
A

SATELLITE... ... . WATSONBY . Walk along Clifftops N of The Gap... ...... N
G
SHEPHERDHL#1 9.0 Y JUNCTION N Walk N down path from int High&Cliff N20J07 N
V
SHEPHERDHL#2 9.0 Y THE HILL N Down drway, N cnr Cliff & TheTerrace N20H08 N
V
SIGNAL HILL. 7.0 Y VAUCLUSE K Signal Hill Res, opp. Myall Ave..... 049F09 N
G
SIGNAL HILL2 8.0 Y VAULCUSE N Crobar/hacksaw door, Old Sth Head Rd 049F09 N
A
SQUEEZE..... 8.0 Y LAPAROUS K S of Pistol Range, S end of golf Rd. 388K12 N
E
WEST HEAD... ... . COMMODOR . Ask Maddog.......................... 159M08 N
G
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
STRUCTURES___V

KEY:

HGT: Height. In Storeys.
T: Type: B: Brickworks. D: Distillery. F: Factory. H: Hotel. I:
Incinerator
J: Jail. M: Mill. N: Navy Depot/Dock. O:Office Tower
P: Power Station. S: Ship. W: Water Tower.

Unfortunatly, most of the best structures have been demolished
already.......
Oh well, eat shit and die to all those of you who didnt see em :)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BRICKWORKS/DISTILLERIES/FACTORIES/HOTELS/INCINERATORS/JAILS/MILL/NAVY/OFFICES
POWER STATIONS/SHIPS/WATER TOWERS.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
NAME HGT T SUBURB W LOCATION MAP X
I
------------ --- - -------- - ------------------------------------ ------ -
-
BRICKWORKS.. 2ST B ALEXANDR N Cnr King St and Sydney Park Rd...... 074R15 N
V
BRISTOL ARMS 3ST H ULTIMO.. N Thru window, Cnr Harris & Quarry Sts 065E01 N
A
BRKV BRICKWK 2ST B NARWEENA N Off W end of Federal Pde............ 238Q08 M
V

CALTEX REFIN 3ST R BIRCHGRO N Over fence, E end Yeend St, nr wharf 055A11 M
A
CAPE DON.... 5ST S WAVERTON A Ship, moored at Halloween Halls..... 045C07 N
G
CENTRALGHOST 1ST T CENTRAL. N Door btween Concourse&Plat26,usewire 027H04 N
V
COCKATOOISLE 8ST N COCKATOO B Between Balmain & Woolwich, use boat 044L09 N
E
CSR DISTILL. 5ST D PYRMONT. N Over fence down path from Jones St.. 055B17 N
G

DUNLOP/SLAZN 2ST F ALEXANDR N Thru gates on Bowden St............. 075E13 M
V

GLAD WRAP... 6ST F RHODES.. N Over fence at main ent, Marquet St.. 274L01 M
V

MINDA....... 3ST J REGENTVI N Opp. cnr Cutcliffe Ave and Joseph St 293L06 M
G
THE MUSHROOM 12S W PETERSHM N Cnr Crystal and New Canterbury Rds.. 063F10 N
E

NEWINGTON... 3ST N SILVERWT N Over fence 200mE of Send SilverwatRd 274A19 M
G

ROSELANDS... 10S W ROSELAND N Cnr Canarys Rd and Nicoll St........ 314J06 N
G

TRAM SHED... 1ST F GLEBE... N X canal at cr Chapman&Nelsonthrugate 064P01 N
V

WANGI WANGI. 18S P WANGIWAG N Over fence at Wangi Point Rd........ ...... M
E
WATERLOO INC 10S I ZETLAND. N Hole in fence, cnr Merton & Portman. 075H14 N
E
WEST RYDE... 6ST P WEST RYD N N along lines from Hermitage&Rhodes. 254N12 N
V
WHITE BAY... 16S P ROZELLE. N Over fence from RobertSt or railyrd. 065N17 M
V
WORLD SQUARE 21S O SYDNEY.. N Thru door in hoarding, Pitt St...... 028J01 M
V
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MISC CAVITIES___V

KEY:
T: Type: C: Coal. R: Reservoir. S: Substation. U Unknown.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
COAL/RESERVOIR/SUBSTATION/UNKNOWN CAVITIES.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
NAME HGT T SUBURB W LOCATION MAP X
I
------------ --- - -------- - ------------------------------------ ------ -
-
DIRGES HOLE. 14. S SYDNEY.. N Grille,50m SW cnr Margaret & Kent St 025H16 N
A
THE DRYER... 10. C ROZELLE. K Hatch, N end of fence, Robert St.... 054Q15 N
G

GLADSTONE PK 25. R BALMAIN. N Hut opp Balmain Hosp, on Booth St... 054Q13 N
E

HATCHETSHOLE 7.0 U SYDNEY.. N Conc M/h rear ofSydneyHosp, opDomain 026L17 N
A

PADDO GARAGE 12. R PADDINGN A SW cnr of Oatley Rd and Oxford St... 066R05 N
G
PLACEBO ROOM 16. U PYRMONT. N Grille in rearof stairs,Jones Bay Rd 055C16 N
B

WOOLLOOMOOLO 35. R WOLLOOMO S M/h in elevated pk,NW endLincolnCres 056N17 N
E





   Replies  Author  Date
9369  Re: Expos list taken off msn Comm  trioxide_cc  Wed  5/8/2002
9385  Re: Expos list taken off msn Comm  dtrogau  Fri  5/10/2002


  Message 9365 of 9827  |  Previous | Next  [ Up Thread ]  Message Index     
        Msg #

Reply | Forward | View Source | Unwrap Lines | Delete





--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright  2002 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy - Terms of Service - Guidelines - Help





>From: john smith <mutinydog@yahoo.com.au>
>Reply-To: cave_clan@yahoogroups.com
>To: cave_clan@yahoogroups.com
>Subject: (C/C) Location doc.
>Date: Fri, 14 Jun 2002 16:21:40 +1000 (EST)
>
>
>Could someone please send me an attachment with an updated location 
>list.Cheers.
>
>Mutiny
>
>
>
>---------------------------------
>SOLD.com.au- Find yourself a bargain!




_________________________________________________________________
Get your FREE download of MSN Explorer at http://explorer.msn.com/intl.asp.


------------------------ Yahoo! Groups Sponsor ---------------------~-->
Will You Find True Love?
Will You Meet the One?
Free Love Reading by phone!
http://us.click.yahoo.com/Deo18C/zDLEAA/Ey.GAA/ktVolB/TM
---------------------------------------------------------------------~->

 

Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/ 


