


----------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Sydney Cave Clan Archive   KNOWN (Places To Explore) DOC v242
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

        CONTENTS

                Sydney: Drains                              _drai
                        Structures                          _stru
                        Tunnels and Caves                   _tunn
                        Bridges                             _brid
                        Bunkers                             _bunk

        DISCLAIMER
        This document is intended for RECREATIONAL READING only.
        Cave Clan takes no responsibility for persons/groups who take
        offense, or find themselves coming to harm, injury or legal
        difficulties due to the taking of instruction from this document.
        Those wishing to take instruction from this document DO SO AT
        THEIR OWN RISK! If you can't take responsibility for your own
        actions, then don't take those actions. Cave Clan, and the
        various contributors to this document, do not cover liabilities.
        Otherwise please feel free to distribute this info.
        Eat a Bowl!

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Description: This file contains the extended list of locations for
             Sydney, as of May 3rd 2001. This includes:
                Drains     189
                Structures  36
                Tunnels     40
                Bridges     30
                Bunkers     31
                Total:     326  Places to Explore.
             Please see the Gone Txt. for listings of demolished or reused/
             refurbished locations that have been removed from this list.

Author:      Contributors: Diode, Predator, Ogre, Mr India, Siologen,
             Trioxide, Howie, Magic, Stray, Maddog, Tyr, Dtrog and The Lads.
             Based on the original Known. Doc, compiled by Diode, in which
             only the locations visited by Diode himself where recorded.
             This version includes ALL Known Locations.
             Compiled and Edited by Diode, Ogre and presently by Siologen,
             Cave Clan Sydney

Thanks To:   (In Chron. order)Dougo, Sloth, Woody, Wes, Rusco, Predator,
             Diode, Mullet, Gobbledox, Howie and The Bunker Boyz, The Lads,
             Prowler, Magic, Pied Viper, Mr India, Ogre, Siologen, Drac,
             Wombat, Yoda, Trioxide, Dirge, Stray, Maddog, Hatchet, Striker,
             Tyr, Assasin, Oriface, Dtrog, Fishie and anyone else who found
             anything  that is on, or should be on this here list.
             Cave Clan are Go.

Sydways:     Has been used because of the consistencies between editions,
             eg, what is page 220 f16 in one edition will also be 220 f16 in
             another.

Entry sections
--------------
Name:        Official Cave Clan Name. (with Approximated length if a tunnel)
Other:       Other Name.
Descrip:     Brief Description.
Feat:        Notable Features/Things to See.
Loc:         Location, Suburb, Sydways Street Directory Page & Grid Co-ords.
Acc:         How to Gain Access.
Exit:        Other Ways Out.
Wet:         Water Levels.
Photo:       Photos Available. Somewhere.
Care:        Cautions.
Hist:        History.
Cond:        Structural/Environmental Status.
Eek!         Particularly Dodgy Features.
Todo:        Things to be Accomplished in the future.
Now:         Present Status.
Int:         Ribina Berry Goodness Rating: Boring, Average, Good, Very Good,
             Excellent. Replaced Diode's too analytical '1 to 10' rating.
Found:       When the site was first found/or accessed, and who by.
             This is as accurate as possible. Errors should be pointed out
             to editor for correction in later editions. If you've got a
             problem with that... too bad.
Future:      What will happen later.
Note:        Please read this.

****************************************************************************
* SYDNEY DRAINS **************************************************_drai*****
****************************************************************************

Name:    (The) Abyss. 1.3km long
Descrip: Your average drain, just happens to exit at top of 30m high
         cliff.
         Pity the drain is only 5'10"H.
Feat:    Sudden absence of floor.
Care:    Not a drain to skate board in.
Loc:     [Sydway 36 N18]North Cremorne.
Acc:     Over fence at cliff edge on Grafton St, opposite Fall St.
Exit:    Via grill on side 6' round pipe. Off Warringa Rd.
Wet:     No
Int:     Average
Found:   1993 Diode


Name:    Acer Bats.
Descrip: Fairly short 6-7ft RCP drain running under Acer, in North
         Ryde, plus rectangular extension under M2 motorway.
Feat:    Room, small water fall; Bats; Bends; Churn blocks at
         downstream end.
Loc:     North Ryde. 235 G15
Acc:     Best way to get in is through "the overkill overflow". Enter
         the Acer car park and head towards the north west corner, near
         Christie Rd M2 Overpass. Looking down at the M2 you should
         eventually find what seems to be an overflow channel which
         goes underneath some parts of the carpark, and actualy flows
         into Acer Bats. RCP has several sharp bends, and cute lil' bats fly
         at you from their hidey-holes in the top of the RCP.
Exit:    Way you came (May be possible to get out upstream end if
         hardcore.
Wet:     Wet at entrance, dry otherwise. Use pieces of wood left from
         construction to make temporary bridge when entering.
Int:     Average
Found:   1999 Trioxide


Name:    Amaroo.
Descrip: 6' round, some interesting changes, longish.
Feat:    Take the 7 foot pipe to its illogical extreme. Not very long,
         nor particularly interesting.
Loc:     Amaroo Reserve off Henry Lawson Drive. Georges Hall
         [Sydways 292 F17]
Acc:     W end of Marden St, corner with Amaroo Avenue.Is in adjacent
         park, drains into creek.
Exit:    Probable exits for those keen enough to pop concrete slabs atop
         gutter boxes.
Int:     Average
Found:   1994 Diode


Name:    Another.
Descrip: 5'6" Round drain. Not explored very far.
Feat:    None at present.
Loc:     Western point off same bay as Pete's drain. [Sydway 334 P9].
Int:     Boring
Found:   1994 Diode


Name:    Anzac 91. 700m long
Descrip: A brick canal, 7ft, with an underground junction to another
         upstream feeder which shrinks to four foot brick twin. These
         join and go downstream in a twinned6x6ft concrete square,
         exiting in a canal near the Bexley Swimming Centre.
Loc:     Under Bexley Golf Course [Sydway 315 C15]
Acc:     Downstream of canal in Bexley Golf Club near corner of Croydon
         Road and Louis Terrace, Bexley.
Exit:    Grille
Photos:  yes
Int:     Average
Found:   1991 Dougo/Melb Clan


Name:    Anzac 91 Folly. 250m long.
Descrip: 5'8 round pipe, fairly old with 8ft sandstone chamber and 7ft
         covered canal entrance.
Loc:     Upstream of Anzac 91, (easily mistaken for Anzac 91), under
         Croydon Rd, between Barnards Ave & Louis St, Bexley [315 C15]
Acc:     Walk down into Golf course from Croydon Rd.
Exit:    Grille in Smiths Ave
Wet:     No
Int:     Average
Found:   1998 Mr India/Siologen


Name:    Apollo. 400m long.
Other:   Bat Cave (Tunnel Tribe name)
Descrip: Surprisingly interesting 7ft Rcp Drain.
Feat:    Lots of bats, twists, turns, rooms, ramps.
Loc:     Maquarie Park, upstream of Hercs Pillars (hence name...apparently)
Acc:     Bottom of Waterloo Rd, on Wicks Rd, (at intersection). In bushes,
         next to gate leading to horses feild. 255 N02
Exit:    Comes out after 350m.
Wet:     Ankle at entrance, use stepping stones.
Int:     Average
Found:   1999 Hatchet


Name:    Archibowl. 350m long.
Descrip: Covered canal drain, 6-8ft.
Feat:    Reinforced entrance, old, perfectly rounded brick bowl section with
         a roof constructed of many small brick arches, roots sticking thru.
Loc:     Homebush. Sydways: 274 L16
Acc:     Depending what kind of Street directory you have itll either be:
         Ubd/Gregorys: Over fence, north side of Parramatta Rd, opp. SUBWAY
         Lane.
         Sydways: Over fence, north side of Parramatta Rd, opp. SELWYN Lane.
         The Sydways is in fact wrong as the actual lane is called Subway,
         according to its street sign.
Exit:    Gets smaller after bowl, ends 200m later.
Wet:     No.
Int:     Average
Found:   1998 Hatchet


Name:    Autobahn. 1.2km long.
Descrip: 7' round, provides drainage for M5. 1km long.
Feat:    Grilles, mainly just a long tube.
Loc:     Padstow, under M5. Sydways: 313 L11
Acc:     North East end Bryant St Padstow. Empties into mangrove.
Exit:    Possible to open well stuck grilles in M5.
Wet:     Dry
Int:     Average
Found:   1995 Diode


Name:    Bankstown Cage. 450m long.
Descrip: Room in drain with panoramic foot level view of public square
         through three-sided cage.
Feat:    A funny overflow.
Loc:     At base of Bankstown Civic Tower.
Acc:     Into open drain next to rail line at Bankstown Station, via
         parking lot off North terrace Sydway 313 J01. Head NWest into
         drain, take all RH turns. (East leads to Wormhole). Longish 7-8ft
         high drain.
Exit:    Ends after further longish 1M high drain.
Phot:    Yes.
Wet:     No
Int:     Good
Found:   1992 Diode


Name:    (The) Basin
Descrip: Large stormwater basin beside rail line Nth of Sydenham
         station
Feat:    Short but interesting 9' high rectangular drain at NE corner.
         Three rectangular drains stacked vertically at Western corner.
         Bottom two about 5'6", very long, not explored to ends.
         Top one about 4', not explored at all.
         The bottom one has little flow, may possibly go to area now
         drained by newer 'Rocktop' drain. So may deadend?
         Middle one has side tunnel with dive-room.
Loc:     Sydenham, Sydways: 074 L07
Acc:     Along  lane next to rail line, or via 'Three pits' canal.
Care:    Do not attempt after heavy rain, Basin is over 4 storeys deep.
Wet:     Usually only knee, below pumphouse.
Int:     Average
Found:   1991 Predator


Name:    (The) Bat Cave. 500m long.
Descrip: Drain under industrial area, 10ft throughout
Feat:    BIIGG DRAIN! Bats
Cond:    Good, minor plant growth in second section on floor.
Loc:     Sydway 238 M5 NW end of public pathway from Clearview Pl.
Acc:     Walk to railing at end of path, jump over, go in.
Exit:    Opens at intersection of Cross and Old Pittwater rd.
Wet:     Ankle, knee in 12ft high section
Int:     Good
Eek!:    The noise Bats make (Eek!)
Found:   1996 Mr India


Name:    Beads.
Descrip: Lots of shortish but varied drains, with intervening short
         canal bits. An alternative way to get to 'Ghost train' drain.
Loc:     Sydway 273 L15]. Lidcombe.
Acc:     Canal from East St, near corner with Victoria St. (East).
         Follow down.
Exit:    Numerous.
Wet:     Dry
Int:     Good
Cond:    Far upstream end is blocked by flood debris.
Found:   1993 Diode


Name:    (The)Bishop. 250m long.
Descrip: Old tunnel that used to house the counterweight that allowed
         Trams to safely travel up and down a steep section of Darling
         St. Now a drain.
Feat:    15m long, 18 inch dia. access pipe, that has to be squirmed
         thru to gain access to main tunnel, named "The Bishop" from the
         scene in the film "Aliens" where the cyborg "Bishop" crawls
         thru air con pipes to get to the satellite uplink that will
         bring the ship down.
         Also has rails and mini GPT.s, is 5'4ft max and 300m long.
Loc:     Darling St, Balmain. Sydways:055 D12
Acc:     In a small grassy enbankment at the end of Darling st, to the
         north of the bus u-turn area there are two wrought iron doors
         in the ground. Use manhole key, or fingers to open, climb down
         into 9ft hi room, get down on belly and squirm thru the pipe
         that heads on up Darling St.
Exit:    Manhole at other end, six seg. In middle of intersection of
         Darling and Nicholson Sts. Safe to use very late at night, but
         only in emergency.
Care:    Tunnel is now a drain and all gutter boxes on that part of
         Darling st feed into it. Avoid rain, as 18inch pipe will not be
         accessible. Very claustrophobic.
Photo:   Yes.
Wet:     Yes, very, you get soaked while squirming through the pipe
Int:     Very Good
Found:   1998 Siologen/Ogre


Name:    Blackwattle Bay. 3.9km long.
Descrip: A truly wonderful, excellent drain. Shape and size changes,
         weird  junctions, and (sadly) a connection to the live sewer
         system. Triple overflow, with 7ft redbrick side tunnels, a very
         old 9ft high tub, and a 6ft sandstone arch section.
Feat:    Many side tuunels, check out the Treasure room, 400m up the
         main brick balloon branch. Very atmospheric, and mostly original
         since 1870's.
Care:    Entrance is covered at high tide. Plan expos using tide charts.
         Sewage is intense, you will see lots of turds
Loc:     Blackwattle Bay, Pyrmont to Chippendale.Sydways 055 C20
Acc:     Twin 5'0 ft concrete outlet in East cnr of Blackwattle Bay,
         near fish markets.
         For those wishing to avoid the knee deep terd infested water at
         the entrance, a grille entrance is located outside the council
         depot gates on William Henry St, near Bay St (065 D2) and for
         those only wanting to see the upstream end, a manhole N-E corner
         of the intersection of Smail St and Blackwattle Ln(065 E04).
Exit:    Once thru manhole(trimar) in cnr Shepherd and Rose Sts,
         Chippendale, or via very heavy 8 seg. pizza outside Sydney
         Uni's Engineering Library. Also thru 8 seg pizza in Blackwattle
         lane.
Wet:     Knee at low tide
Photos:  Yup, some sent with complaint letter and map to the EPA.
Now:     Sewer has been disconnected!
Int:     Excellent
Found:   1994 Predator/Diode/Mullet


Name:    Blacktown
Descrip: Starts at Richmond Road Blacktown just west of the
         intersection with Curren Rd
         A huge pipe that runs for a few hundred metres but ends in a
         room that contains five 1m dia pipes that'd be a lot of
         effort to explore, any super keen people?
Feat:    Enormous diameter of final pipe
Loc:     [Sydway 230 B9]
Acc:     Clamber down to drain from Richmond Rd, which is west of Curran Rd.
Exit:    Just go back to entrance
Wet:     Shoe
Int:     Average.
Found:   1999 Stray


Name:    Blacktown Workers Club
Descrip: Starts opposite club with a low entrance (crawl) under road
         but pipe increases in size and runs west beside the ovals
         and carpark of the club rather short but has a few turns to
         make it interesting. Ends where water has backed up the pipe
         it's a little smelly as a result.
Feat:    Turns and skylight in club carpark
Loc:     [Sydway 250 F7]
Acc:     Low entrance to Drain Opposite Workers Club, Reservoir Rd.
Exit:    Possible through putrid water behind Carpark
Wet:     Shin at exit - can stay dry otherwise
Int:     Average
Found:   1999 Trioxide.


Name:    Blub Blub.
Other:   Bumborah Pt Water Cooling Tunnel
Descrip: Cooling water tunnel to Old Bunnerong Power Station
         (demolished).
Feat:    Major concrete installation on waterline just East of tidal
         wave barrier near the Botany Bulk Liquids Storage area.Large
         rooms (20' high, 40' wide) half full of seawater at sea
         entrance. Massive grilles made of railway lines (for good
         reason!).Three 6' dia shafts in perfect condition, about 30m
         deep, no steps. Tunnel length about 1km by map. Diameter
         unknown.
Care:    DO NOT risk being sucked into tunnel by surges from swell. If
         you lift shaft covers, MUST replace, or you'll kill someone, as
         falling in is certain death. Covers are rectangular, concrete,
         takes two people to lift. Beware dropping them in.
Cond:    All completely under water, even at lowest tide. Tunnel
         probably still in good condition for full length, but shaft at
         power station end filled with rubble.
Loc:     Sea exit installation: [Sydway 337 R5], Bumborah Point.
         Two shaft covers in reserve behind Bumborah Point. Water at
         bottom rises and falls with sea, causing air to whoosh thru
         gaps in lid.
         One shaft cover outside Bunnerong PowerStation fence (Military
         Rd) opposite flower shop for cemetery. Water at bottom rising &
         falling.
         One shaft at site of old generator building, at base of
         southern end of wall (cliff) below Bunnerong Power station
         Switch building. This shaft full of rubble. Sound of water
         moving.
Acc:     Tunnel: When the seas dry up, or scuba when sea VERY still.
         Can squeeze thru grill at sea exit, or thru cyclone fence gap
         and drop 4m into room behind grill. Tunnel entrance under
         water.
         Side room: via large 7' by 5' grill, on western side of main
         sea exit. Need crowbar to lift and slide it along. Ladder down
         into room. Underwater tunnel 20m long joins to main sea exit,
         where there is an underwater wooden grill.
         Inside room is 2nd massive steel grill, no access, don't know
         where room on other side goes.
Exit:    None.
Phot:    Not yet.
Wet:     D(ive).
Int:     ?
Todo:    Lift manhole covers near power station end shaft.
Eek!:    Shafts.
Found:   1992 Diode


Name:    Brams Hatch. 500m long.
Descrip: Drain under Dee Why commercial centre
Feat:    Access into "secure" area
Care:    Upstream end opens out beneath large window VIS!
Cond:    Side "twin" pipe crumbling.
Loc:     Sydway 239 G5, up channel on S side of Richmond Ave
Acc:     Walk up channel to drain
Exit:    Opens at end behind PO
Wet:     Ankle
Int:     Average
Eek!:    Roof dips to 4'9" for 10m
Found:   1997 Mr India


Name:    Bronte. 250m long.
Descrip: 6' round drain, changes to rect. brick.
Feat:    Old stone entrance.
Loc:     [Sydway  78 P11]
Acc:     Down steps from Murray St.
Exit:    none.
Wet:     No
Int:     Average
Found:   1993 Diode


Name:    Bronte #2. 300m long.
Descrip: Dead boring 6ft rec, that soon becomes 5'6, then splits to twin
         4ft rounds.
Feat:    Bugger all.
Loc:     [Sydway 78 P11]
Acc:     Northern corner of Bronte beach.
Exit:    Opens
Wet:     Ankle.
Int:     Boring
Found:   1998 Siologen


Name:    Busby's Bore. (Real Name)(Disused water supply tunnel)
Descrip: First underground tunnel in Australia. 3km water supply tunnel,
         from swamps where Centennial Park is now, to Hyde park. Dug by
         convicts. Large folder of info accumulated on this. Now only
         a few people living who are known to have been in it.
Feat:    Many vertical shafts, side tunnels, dives, bad air, later
         additions. Construction was only monitored via word of mouth so
         if convicts got bored digging the main tunnel, they would start
         digging their own tunnel, therefore wasting the Civil Engineers
         time and money.
Loc:     [Sydway 66 P5]  There is a monument in Centennial park near
         Lang  road entrance, with informative plaque.
Acc:     Two manholes on Moore park Rd, either side of Driver Avenue, in
         westbound lane near footpath. To see, need 'lane closed'
         barricades, manhole key, strong lever and mallet.
         To enter, need tanked air and wire ladder/rope, maybe scuba
         gear.
         Still trying for other access points.
Hist:    More than any other tunnel in Australia!
Log:     Attempts on:-
         *  Checked Moore park rd, Centennial park, cnr Oxford & Dowling
            Sts, went on to do Fortress. Mullet & friend, Diode.
         *  Diode. Evening Hyde park (found manhole in flowerbed), up
            Oxford St. Moore park rd-workmen pointed out manholes in road,
            and mentioned access in Cricket ground car park. (Ha turkeys)
         *  14/6/92 Diode, Mullet and friends. Evening. Opened manhole
            in Hyde park: is DEEP shaft to sewer (Bondi?) (Is in Hyde Park
            flowerbed opposite the old Police Headquarters Bldg). Search
            rest of way to Centennial park: no luck. Found Centennial park
            drain, went on to do Rushcutters Bay drain.
         *  25/6/92 Diode, Mullet & JS. Manholes at Taylor Square and
            Sydney Cricket Ground. Ambulance siren at Taylor Sq: Yikes!
            Rained heavily.
         *  8/7/92 Mullet & Diode. Success! Opened 2 manholes in Moore
            Park  Rd. Marked with yellow diodes on footpath near Driver
            Avenue. Did not enter due to bad air (extinguished flame).
            Bottoms full of water.
Int:     ?
Wet:     Very, but may be seasonal.
Care:    Air in some/all sections is likely to be incompatible with
         life.
Found:   1992 Diode/Mullet


Name:    Candleroom. 1.2km long.
Other:   Anzac '98
Descrip: A Canberra style Sydney Drain.
Feat:    Twin 6ft rounds, 7ft high room w/ wood ceiling, grilled "canal"
         sections, two small slides, 10ft high downstream entrance
Loc:     Eastwood Sydways: 254N01
Acc:     In Jim Walsh park, on Balaclava Rd.
Exit:    Ends
Wet:     Downstream entrance (exit) is ankle.
Int:     Good
Found:   1998 Ogre/Mr India/Drac/Wombat


Name:    Cannon. 800m long.
Descrip: Near dead straight 8ft Rcp, that slowly gets smaller over about 1km
Feat:    Rooms, small waterfall.
Loc:     Wakeley 290N01
Acc:     From the end of Dyer Cl, go west into park to canal, the Cannon is
         a side drain.
Exit:    Various grilles.
Wet:     Ankle at entrance, do the splits to avoid.
Int:     Average
Found:   1998 Hatchet


Name:    Cecilia
Descrip: 7ft rec that becomes 5ft rcp.
Feat:    Big gpt system just in from entrance, huge vertical grille.
Loc:     Glenfeild
Acc:     From the strip of Campbelltown Rd, between Glenfeild Rd and
         the South Western Fwy turn N/W onto one of the unnamed roads
         that go into an undeveloped residential area. Follow NW till
         you reach an cross road. Follow the cross road S/W until you see
         a fenced off driveway. Follow this to the drain.
Exit:    None, just gets smaller.
Wet:     Gpt, but is avoidable.
Int:     Average
Found:   2000 Trioxide


Name:    Cecil Hills. 3.8km long.
Descrip: Fully in use water supply tunnel.
         Very long 8ft brick arch tunnel that carries water to Prospect
         Reservoir.
Feat:    Plaque above upstream end states its 11436ft long. First
         400m is 8ft brick and sandstone arch. Littered with Stalagite
         clusters, turtles and frogs. Has backfilled access shaft in middle.
         Vertical grille on upsteam end. Becomes 10ft brick and sandstone.
Loc:     Abbotsbury to Cecil Park.
Acc:     Either: Canal in Calmsley Hill City farm off Darling St,
Abbotsbury. 269G19
         Or: Feild bash South East from near cnr of Elizabeth Dr & Duff
         Rd, plate in top of grille is loose or off. 288 N07
Photo:   Yes.
Wet:     May at times be too full of water to walk through. Ankle otherwise.
Int:     Very Good(mildly monotonous though)
Todo:    Tunnel 100m down canal from north end. All other tunnels on this
         canal.
Eek:     Water marks 2ft from roof.
Found:   1999 Stray


Name:    Centennial Park (#1).
Descrip: Drain, 5.5' round entrance, leading northish.
Feat:    No change for a long way, then T's to a 4' high, 8' wide
         rectangular form. One side dammed off and dry, (heading south
         west? and down) with bends. Looks fairly old; where the hell
         does this go?
Loc:     [Sydway 76 Q12]
Acc:     Cnr Dacey Av, Anzac Pde, Alison Rd, in centennial park.
Todo:    Need a skate board or something to follow this without causing
         thighs to explode.
Int:     Boring
Found:   1992 Diode


Name:    Centennial Park (#2).
Descrip: Drain, 4' high, 8' wide entrance, leading west.
Feat:    Moths
Loc:     [Sydway 67 A10]
Acc:     Drains into Busby's Lake in centennial park. Near Lang rd
         entrance.
Int:     Boring
Diff:    Backbreakingly low.
Found:   1992 Diode


Name:    Centennial Park (#3).
Descrip: 5'6 rec drain with a huge 5ft deep GPT at its entrance
Feat:    Walkways at side of drain, gives the illusion of being 10ft
         high.
Loc:     067 F10
Acc:     Outlet on west side of Centennial Park, near cnr of York Rd and
         Queen's Park Road.
Exit:    Bondi Junction Mall?
Wet:     Boat
Int:     Average
Found:   1997 Ogre


Name:    Centennial Park  (#4)
Other:   The Net.
Descrip: Network of old and new drains under Queens Park. Mostly 4'
         high, but plenty of standing spots.
Feat:    Some sandstone walls, interesting tree root formations.
         Occasional ducks who accompany explorers. Nice viewing window
         of passing cars.
Loc:     SE snr of Centennial Park.  Sydways:077 G12
Acc:     In canal, near cnr Musgrave Ave and Avoca St.
Exit:    ?
Wet:     Mostly dry, ankl near entrance.
Int:     Boring
Found:   1997 Ogre


Name:    Centennial Park (#5).
Descrip: Drain flowing out of Centennial Park, Towards Australian Golf
         Course.
Feat:    Starts as three 3ft squares, quickly changes to one 6ft round.
         Changes to redbrick round, redbrick loaf then 5ft square twins.
Loc:     West side of Centennial Park. 076 R13
Acc:     In canal flowing out of lake, adjacent to Nth end of Alison Rd.
Exit:    Ends under Roma St Kensington. Downstream is Eel Pit.
Int:     Boring
Found:   1997 Ogre


Name:    Charity Creek. 1.3km long.
Descrip: Good under-rail tunnel, short open creek, 7' rectangular (eels)
         then 7' flattened round, 6' side rounds with lots of turns and
         branches, waterfall in side drain, large chamber under Victoria
         Rd at exit. Length about 800m.
Loc:     Meadowbank, [Sydway 254 N14].
Acc:     Bank St, 54/H7 near Meadowbank station, or car park of
         Meadowbank TAFE. TAFE entrance is ankle deep. Lotsa eels.
Exit:    Opening at chamber, next to petrol station on Victoria Rd.
Int:     Very Good
Todo:    Continue past Victoria Rd, also explore above waterfall and
         further side drains. Predator advises that after the waterfall
         the drain goes to a 2 ft section. After the chamber it does
         much the same.
         Bummer.
Photos:  Yes.
Note:    Side tunnel in this leads to Soylent Green.
Found:   1990 Dougo/Melb Clan


Name:    Cheesegrater. 300m long
Descrip: Huge (14ft) bifurcated drain.
Feat:    Huge (again) structural support, in roof of large room.
Loc:     Parramatta. Sydways: 253 C17
Acc:     From McDonalds on Hassel St, near cnr with James Ruse Drive,
         cross rd to Flag Motel, go down grassy section on eastern
         side of motel grounds, follow until fence, over fence, into canal,
         follow canal 100m d/s to drain.
Exit:    Ends at Parramatta River.
Wet:     Tidal, ankle at low tide.
Int:     Good
Found:   1998 Mr India


Name:    ChickenPox. 250m long.
Descrip: Massive inverse parabolic stormwater drain(15ft). Not very long
         though.
Feat:    Drain alternates between clear and turbulence-blocked sections.
         Rather good graffiti can been seen at the south entrance. There
         are two metal boxes at the top of the tunnel.
Care:    No real hazards here fellas.
Cond:    Structurally perfect (although substantially grafittied at both
         ends).
Loc:     Proceed down service road parallel to F3 (Hornsby-Newcastle)
         Freeway. Service road is located at the corner of Burdett and
         King streets, Hornsby. Proceed a few hundred metres down the
         road. Sydways: 215 F04
         The drain is located on the left hand side of the road, where
         the road dips.
Acc:     Could this be the easiest drain of all when it comes to
         entering it? Climb down the rocks and walk in.
Exit:    Either end, although the North end is much easier.
Phot:    A few, scanned.
Wet:     About 5mm of down the middle of the drain on a fine day, about
         50mm on a wet day.
Int:     Good
Now:     No changes.
Todo:    Have a party there....the only problem is that it's rather
         close to houses. :(
Found:   1995 Pied Viper/4 Stooges


Name:    Chimney. 150m long
Descrip: Short drain.
Feat:    Unusual exit/entrance, 6ft.
Loc:     Homebush. Sydways:274 B12
Acc:     Twin grilles, north side of Parramatta Rd between Gallipoli St &
         Bachell Ave. Behind fence, base of M4 enbankment.
Exit:    Ends.
Wet:     No.
Int:     Average
Found:   1998 Hatchet


Name:    Chlorinated
Descrip: Small network of RCP's
Feat:    Not much
Loc:     Baulkham Hills, NSW
Acc:     Downstream entrance, on Windsor Road, opposite Roxborough Park Road
         There are two sets of drains here. Chlorinated is the right
         (eastern one).
Exit:    Way you came, or grille in park (when not locked)
Wet:     Slightly
Int:     Average
Care:    Smells like chlorine. There is a Public pool in the park which this
         drain starts at.
Found:   1999 Trioxide


Name:    Clippings.
Descrip: Two 200m lengths of 6' round drain, with 10m gap in middle.
         Upstream entrance has backyard fences abutting, one of which has a
         gate to allow the owner to dump his grass clippings in the canal.
         Toss them back into the arsehole's yard!
         Downstream section has bats.
Loc:     Gymea, UBD 101/G10, cnr President Av & North West Arm rd. In
bushes.
Int:     Boring
Found:   1997 Diode


Name:    Clogged Clam. 1.1km long.
Descrip: A Covered canal drain.
Feat:    10ft entrance with black metal bracing on roof, lots of sand,
         encrustations in their millions, big chamber under William St,
         two 5'5 branches, graffiti from construction in 1950's.
Loc:     Double Bay. SYDWAY [67 G2]
Acc:     Most downstream drain on Kaiora St canal.
Photos:  Yes at Lo and Hi tide
Exit:    Opens at bay, also, exit via fence in chamber.
Wet:     knee/tidal
Int:     Good
Found:   1997 Siologen


Name:    Coalcliff. 500m long.
Descrip: Large concrete arch drain, under mine tailings dump at
         Coalcliff.
Feat:    Huge, flat floored. Slopes, has two slides, one of which is
         near 5m high. Entrance also has two 5' dia steel drain exits
         next to it, but they are difficult to enter. One is very steep, the
         other is just plain awkward to get into. Could be done with a G
         clamp and rope.
Loc:     Wollongong Gregory's  16 F3
Acc:     Off Lawrence Hargrave Drive, at Coalcliff.
Wet:     1cm.
Int:     Excellent
Found:   1993 Predator


Name:    Cocaine.
Descrip: A drain?
Loc:     Castle Hill, Sydways:212 F18
Acc:     Look around in Cockayne Park.
Exit:    Unknown.
Wet:     Unknown.
Found:   ?????


Name:    Cockthorpe. 300m long.
Descrip: Long 6' round, no features. Changes to 5'6" round, not
         explored.
Loc:     [Sydway 273 J16] Lidcombe.
Acc:     50m up canal from upper end of Ghost Train. On right.
Exit:    Via gutter grill near corner of Cockthorpe Rd & Water St.
Int:     Boring
Wet:     No
Found:   1993 Diode


Name:    Colquhoun Park.
Descrip: 3x 5' round, parallel drains. Long echo.
Feat:    ?
Loc:     [Sydway 272 P10]
Acc:     From canal in park.
Exit:    ?
Todo:    Follow. May get bigger if pipes join.
Int:     Boring
Found:   1993 Diode


Name:    Cook's River. 800m long.
Descrip: 8ft x 6ft rectangular feeding onto the cooks river. Becomes 8ft
         round, then rises to 3ft, with twin 5ft'ers of to the right
         that open out into a very old parallel spraycrete tonkin.
Feat:    Interesting end
Loc:     Campsie. Sydways: 295 E13
Acc:     Sth side of Cook's River between Sixth Ave and Beamish St
Exit:    Rather dodgy grille on cnr of Ninth Ave and Loch St, Campsie,
         very near a roundabout.
Photo:   Yes.
Wet:     Waist at high tide; dry at low tide
Int:     Good
Found:   1990 Dougo/Melb. Clan


Name:    Crashout. 900m long.
Descrip: Drain with interesting room and two old drains beyond.
Feat:    Crashout room
Care:    Stay on eastern wall of exposed canal when entering drain.
Loc:     Alexandria 075 G14
Acc:     Canal  in fire station grounds adjacent to cnr Wyndham Rd and
         Bourke St. Walk upstream.
Photo:   Yes.
Exit:    Grille in factory car park off Joynton St Zetland.
Wet:     Knee
Int:     Good
Eek!:    Smelly pool of water in crashout room.
Found:   1991 Dougo/Rusco


Name:    Croydon Ovuloid
Descrip: Sideways oviform drain Heading south from Hume Hwy, Croydon.
Feat:    Not a very exciting drain. Turds seen in drain sum up the
         experience.
Loc:     Croydon, Sydways:295 G07
Acc:     Jump fence into canal next to Caltex on Hume Hwy.
Exit:    none?
Int:     Boring
Found:   1997 Ogre/Mr India


Name:    CXIV. 1.2km long.
Descrip: Large covered canal, 10ft high, 20ft wide, with 8ft side branch,
         shrinks to 2x 6ft rcps after 450m.
Feat:    Hardcore structural support, big enough to have drag races in.
Loc:     Merrylands (272,J04)
Acc:     Upstream of Windowville, on south side of McFarlane St,
         near cnr with Pitt St, look for the  big Spotlight sign.
Exit:    Main drain shrinks to 4ft after the Pillar Junction, side tunnel
         ends after 200m into a canal with a 3ft tonkin to the right and 50m
         onward the canal is covered again by a 200m long 12ft high and very
         badly built concrete cap. This shrinks to 4ft then opens again
         after 20m
Int:     Good
Found:   1998 Siologen


Name:    Cycleway. 800m long.
Descrip: Big drain that stays big its entire length.
Feat:    Long 8ft rec, Big slide, more 8ft rec, various rooms, 8ft rcp.
         Drive yer car/bike thru it using access ramp at entrance!
Loc:     Cherrybrook.213 F15
Acc:     Cnr Highgate Pl and Woodgrove Rd.
Exit:    Ends at Clifton Ave.
Wet:     Water marks suggest that at times it may be knee, dry at
         present.
Photo:   Yes.
Int:     Very Good
Found:   1998 Trioxide


Name:    Darling Harbour. 4.4km long.
Other:   Hay St Drain, Lackey St Drain, Chinatown Drain
Descrip: Very old drain with some new sections, flowing from Central
         Station to Darling Harbour.
Feat:    Lotsa atmosphere. Convict built sections, many side tunnels,
         balloon and arch shaped, some with old lights from construction,
         stalagtites, wrought iron sections, slides, watersprays, gpts,
         covered canal sections down overflow, huge roof grilles.
         Sydneys oldest and most extensive drain system
Loc:     Manhole: Sydways:028 J04, Grille: 027 G02, Harbour: 025 F20
Acc:     Trimar, on North-East corner of Eddie Ave and Elizabeth St,
         Sydney.
         Head downstream from here or hinged Grille under Monorail
         station on Quay St, near cnr of Darling Dr.
Exit:    Two exits are available. The first is a 3ft side pipe U/S from
         where the main tunnel splits. This will take you to a safe exit
         under Haymarket mono-rail station. The second is the big one,
         requiring  the use of a lilo or inflatable boat to float out
         into Darling Harbour. Beware the very tight security here who
         don't like people swimming in the harbour. The tunnel exits
         under the wharf. There are actually five tunnels entering the
         harbour here.
         The Easternmost one is the Darling Harbour overflow, the next
         two are the main Darling Harbour twins. The next tunnel heading
         west is The Sydney Tunnel, and the westernmost tunnel
         (around corner from centre three) is Sydney Tunnel overflow.
Care:    Not surprisingly, this drain becomes a raging torrent
         during rain. Take care when entering, keep an eye out for security,
         police etc.
Photos:  Yes, flash and time exposure.
Wet:     This drain is TIDAL. 5ft deep, Take a lilo. Or do the drain to the
         Mono-rail grille, ankle.
Int:     Excellent
Found:   1991 Dougo/Predator/Diode/Mullet


Name:    Deep Throat. Orig: 1.1km long. Now: 500m long
Descrip: Originally: "Bloody long monotonous, low drain. Starts with
         100m 6'4" rectangular, changes to flattened round (looks like
         a throat?) 5'6" high. Goes on forever. I know this finally emerges
         as a 4'oval in Darval Park, but don't know where the change(s) are,
         or if any chambers under West Ryde shopping centre.".
         Now, shorter as most of it has been diverted into the Eternity
         Drain.
Feat:    Absolutely none, unless you like 5'6" high oval drains.
Loc:     [Sydway 254 L14]
Acc:     Corner of Constitution Rd and Federal Rd. Or at the top of the
         waterfall in Eternity.
Exit:    Via gutter grill near Dunmore St
Phot:    Yes.
Todo:    Enter at Dunmore, follow all way up till change. Bicycle?
Pred:    I have done the entire system and the only thing of interest is
         a grille in the footpath in Gaza road. Nice view of the
         girlies!
Int:     Boring
Found:   1992 Predator


Name:    Debris. 450m long.
Descrip: Drain, with varied sections, all clogged with rubbish and
         rubble.
Feat:    Brick horseshoe sections, two 40' high chambers, swimming pool,
         television, misaligned and cracked rcp sections. 200m of crawling
         up a dry side pipe see's you in a room with a dirt roof, weird!
Loc:     Dulwich Hill. 295 R16
Acc:     Upstream(downstream is 1924 drain)running under rail embankment
         on Ewart St near Ewart Lane.
Photo:   Yes
Exit:    In Hercules St Reserve, ends.
Wet:     One section, the swimming pool, is over knee deep, full of Eels
Int:     Good
Found:   Siologen/Dirge


Name:    Diddly.
Descrip: Very long 5' rect enlarging to 6' round. Branches.
Loc:     UBD 90/K9 to K7
Int:     Average
Acc:     Canal at Nth end of Iberia St.
Exit:    Grill in Playford Park, or gutter grill, #3 Lester Rd.
Found:   1995 Predator/Diode


Name:    DiodeDox. 1.2km long.
Descrip: Drain running along under brand new expressway.
         8'H rect. entrance. Downstream of this is Mulletdox.
Feat:    Churn blocks at entrance, rooms, side round pipes (some
         sloping), various grill exits in expressway median areas and
         nearby.
Cond:    Brand shiny new. (In 1993)
Loc:     [Sydway 35 B13] Artarmon.
Acc:     Park in Punch Rd, through wire fence, under Fwy via 5'5" round
         drain. DiodeDox is upstream. Wade through knee deep water at
         churn blocks to entrance.
Exit:    Several grills.
Phot:    Y
Wet:     Knees at entrance, also floor is flat, so wet shoes.
Int:     Good
Found:   1993 Diode


Name:    Driveway.
Descrip: A 1K, 5' round drain. One room, some smaller branches near
         head.
Loc:     [Sydway  293 B15]   Near Yagoona/Bankstown.
Acc:     "Drainage reserve" between Farah Pl and Diffey St, off Hume
         hwy.
Exit:    Dual triangular grilles in front driveway of house #80, The
         Avenue.
Wet:     No
Int:     Boring
Found:   1993 Diode


Name:    D.T.R.T. 300m long.
Other:   Do The Right Thing.
Descrip: 5'8ft round drain with big litter trap in room and 9ft high
         natural rock slide, that becomes a loaf then a 5'8 ft red
         brick, then a 5 m crawl section finishing with The Sydney Stairway.
Feat:    Dangerous old lady.
Loc:     Waverton. SYDWAY [45 F5]
Acc:     On the Eastern shore of Waverton Park.
Exit:    Grille to the front yard of old lady, she gets cranky, but her
         property has no fence, so you just tell her that you thought
         the grille was in the park
Photos:  Yes.
Wet:     dry
Int:     Very Good
Care:    Slide is very slippery and steep, old lady.
Found:   1997 Siologen


Name:    Duck River.
Descrip: A pathetic set of drains. #1 has a promising entrance, but is a
         worthless, shitty little round drain.
         #2 and #3 are old and new parallel rectangular, about 6' but
         shortish. The 'old' one has an interesting 'anti-mini-racers'
         mega grill on the upstream end.
Loc:     [Sydway 293 A8]  Cnr of Munro & Helen St. Goes under Munro St.
Int:     Boring
Found:   1989 Melbourne Clan. First Drain found in Sydney by Cave Clan


Name:    Eel Pit. 1.2km long.
Descrip: An rectangular concrete thing, ranging from 5'8-7ft. Twin,
         wide.
Feat:    Lotsa eels and ducks, some pillars and a big room in
         middle, skylight grilles.
Loc:     Kingsford. 315 P03
Acc:     Cnr Isaac-Smith St and Gardeners Rd. Get in thru Golf course
         carpark.
Wet:     6' at all times.
Exit:    Ends
Int:     Good
Found:   1996 Predator


Name:    Enfield. 600m long.
Descrip: Drain under industrial complex followed by another under Enfield
         Marshalling Yards, Greenacre.
Feat:    The first Drain has a 7ft d/s entrance that is flooded, lots of
         Swallow nests. Second drain has a large grille room in its centre.
Loc:     South Strathfeild. Sydways 294 F14
Acc:     Enter canal from West side of Marshalling yards, cnr of
         Sylvanus St and Drone St. Second entrance is on the marshalling
         yards side of Wentworth St.
Exit:    Ends
Wet:     Ankle
Care:    Serious sewage overflow.
Int:     Average
Found:   1996 Predator


Name:    Ephemeris
Descrip: A 5-6ft drain.
Feat:    12ft hallway section running 100m under shopping Centre, lit at
         either end by massive grilles. Which are lit by carparks outside
         Strange side tunnel halfway up a wall.
         Bulging wall section.
Loc:     Warringah. 238 p13
Acc:     On Pittwater Rd, 20m west along from Extension entrance.
Exit:    Thru grilles.
Wet:     Big section is ankle deep.
Int:     Good
Todo:    Find the Mystery second massive chamber!
Found:   2000 Mr India



Name:    Eternity. 2.2km long.
Other:   Meadowbank Drain (original name)
Descrip: Big drain that runs from Meadowbank park to East Denison....a
         long way.
Feat:    12ft rock blasted horseshoe shaped arch tunnel that becomes a
         10ft loaf shaped tunnel. Has a big room at shape change that has
         the original drain entering from above forming a waterfall over the
         continuation of the main tunnel. Further up there is a gpt with
         an 8ft dia dropshaft above it. Ends in a tall shaft. New section
         added, Big chamber at the end of a 100m long fibreglass pipe that
         runs off the first gpt.
         Also connects to Kinder Surprise drain and replaces Deep Throat.
Loc:     Meadowbank
Acc:     1. Outlet on east side of Deep Throat Canal near bridge, down
          drive from Constitution Rd near tennis crts. 254 L15
         2. Grille into the pillars room, in the section of Meadowbank
         park opp. Mons Ave. May be padlocked. 254 L14
         3. Grille in middle of road West Pde 50m south of intersection
         of West Pde and Miriam rd.254M08
         4. To get to the top of the waterfall: Gutter grill in carpark
         off Betts St. Grille has "owned" tagged on it(?) 254 M10
Exit:    As above.
Wet:     Knee in gpt, tidal also, dry at low tide.
Int:     Excellent
Found:   1998 Predator/Diode/Wombat


Name:    Everville
Descrip: Short lake overflow.
Feat:    Massive grille room, 20m X 15m.
         Churn blocks, 6ft tunnels running off this.
         Grilled off lake end.
Loc:     Regentville.
Acc:     From bend in       walk past shed to huge grille next to
         the M4. Either lift most right hand grille, or do a bishop
         thru pipe from smaller grille to the left.
Exit:    Thru downstream drains, to other side of M4.
Wet:     No
Cond:    Loadsa crappy graff.
Int:     Boring.
Found:   2000 Hatchet



Name:    Eyes. 700m long
Descrip: Pleasant 9ft pipe in Bass Hill.
Feat:    Size, rooms, branches, and waterfalls. As well as nice little
         optical illusion.
Loc:     Bass Hill 292 K09
Acc:     North end of creek in Carysfield Park. Off Liverpool Rd
Exit:    No exit downstream unless you want to swim the 9ft deep pool.
         Exit grille in first upstream room, into petrol Station.
Photos:  Yes.
Int:     Very Good
Found:   1995 Diode/Predator


Name:    Extension. 1.3km long.
Other:   Batcave Extension (original name)
Descrip: Drain under Warringah Mall, 6' - 6'3 throughout except for
         small 5' section, and 8ft chamber.
Feat:    Has 12 side tunnels incl. 100m L x 30ft W x 8ft hi chamber with
         pillars, very old section at the end of one of the branches.
Care:    Builders still working on upstream end and security guards
         patrol mall at night.
Hist:    Built under mall when first conceived, has been modified over
         the years to cope with the larger buildings built on top.
Cond:    good, minor graff in overflow tunnels.
Loc:     Sydway 238 P13 NW Corner of Golf Course
Acc:     Climb over white railing just down from Condamine and Pittwater
         Rd intersection on Condamine St into top of Golf Course. Drain
         starts under railing.
Exit:    A few GBG in green and dale streets, upstream end opens into
         new building work [is being extended NW towards Bat Cave]
Phot:    No
Wet:     Ankle with dry overflow pipes
Int:     Very Good
Todo:    Hope that all the builders debris is washed out
Eek!:    broken glass in entrance.
Found:   1995 Mr India


Name:    The Fallen Tree. 300m long.
Descrip: 5ft tub drain running up from underneath Woolloomooloo Finger
         Wharf.
Feat:    Accompanying map showed this drain branching off in all
         directions with four major branches going as far as Taylor
         Square. As it turns out two of the branches are bricked up and
         one is very wide but very low. The main tunnel shrinks to 3ft
         after about 250m.
Loc:     Woolloomooloo Bay. 056 P17
Acc:     Under Finger wharf.
Wet:     Tidal, ankle to knee.
Exit:    None.
Int:     Boring
Found:   1998 Predator/Siologen


Name:    Fat Tulip. 500m long.
Descrip: Covered canal drain.
Feat:    Fairly large, changes in shape, roof made of bricks and plaster,
         skylight grilles, a huge curtain of roots dangling thru  sections
         about 500m long.
Loc:     Mascot. Approx. 318 A17
Acc:     Details hazy... Jump in canal from near corner of Perry St and
         Denison.
         Walk upstream 200m from here until you reach drain.
Exit:    Ends
Wet:     Large flow down centre, 2m wide, ankle.
Todo:    Follow branch canal/drain that is grilled off, thru to industrial
         estates.
Int:     Good
Found:   1998 Siologen


Name:    The Fence. 350m long.
Descrip: Huge Chamber-esque drain, 350m long, 25m wide, 14ft hi, fenced off
         at edges of canal inside actual drain.
Loc:     Under Flemington Markets 274 H15
Acc:     South side of Parramatta Rd, opp Bedford Rd.
Exit:    Comes out on other side of markets.
Wet:     No.
Int:     Good
Found:   1998 Hatchet


Name:    Flytrap.
Descrip: Crappy 5'6" round, only one known entry/exit (in middle).
         Downstream end is a half submerged 'flap' door in bay at 54/K8
         on Parramatta River. Goes under old ATL factory (abandoned) off
         Nancarrow Av, but no access.
Loc:     [Sydway 254 Q16]
Acc:     Grill in Ann Thorn Park, off Constitution Rd.
Exit:    None.
Int:     Boring
Todo:    Try to forget.
Care:    Has a sewage problem.
Found:   1992 ???


Name:    Formwork. 1.4km long.
Descrip: 6ft rcp, goes long way, various rooms.
Feat:    Formwork still stuck to roofs, unusual "improvised" grille
         on  floor, looks flimsy but is sturdy.
Loc:     West Merrylands  Sydways 271 Q02
Acc:     In Reserve between Yanco St and Leeton St
Exit:    Many grilles.
Wet:     Dry
Int:     Average
Found:   1998 Siologen


Name:    {The} Fortress. 2.4km long.
Descrip: Huge, long, DEEP drain.
Feat:    Ocean entrance, 45 degree slide w/rope, very high chambers
         with balconies, length, size, side slide with steps, drop pipe
         entries, calcite formations, stone roof, etc. Go in from a
         grill at high tide with big waves. The waves slamming into the
         sea end make a sound like nuclear bombs going off, shock waves
         blasting up tunnel, etc. Very spectacular
Loc:     Maroubra.
Acc:     1. Down path to sea from Waterside Ave, Lurline Bay
            (Maroubra).Need low tide & calm sea. 318 N08
         2. Gutter grill at NE corner of Garden and Gale St Maroubra.
            This is a bit tight for 1M, then drops 1M into room with 20cm
            deep water (unavoidable). 318 F08
         3. Six segment pizza manhole (painted red) in gutter, West end
            of Keating St, Maroubra. 318 G07
         4. Six segment pizza in concrete slab, next to Gatics, in
            Quarry Res., off Moverly Rd, Maroubra. 318 J07
         5. Six segment pizza on se cnr of roundabout on Moverly &
            Cooper, Maroubra. 318 H7
Phot:    Yes, many.
Wet:     Lurline Bay: Dry at low tide and calm seas, otherwise forget
         it.
         Gutter grill at Cnr Garden and Gale St: Shin deep
Int:     Excellent
Todo:    Explore past dive room, also past grill in army field.
Found:   1992 Predator


Name:    Ghost Train. 400m long.
Descrip: Short but HUGE drain, two changes. From downstream end: Twin
         5'6" rect (short), arched roof on wide canal, with tension bars
         across at 5'6" height (the ghost train section), then the huge
         bit, which is about 10' high by 25' wide (very new).
Feat:    Lots of stuff hanging off the bars, hence the name.
Loc:     [Sydway 273 L15]  Lidcombe.
Acc:     Canal in Wyatt Park. Under Church St and rail line, take RH
         pair of twin 5'6' drains. (LH drain is one of the "Beads"
         drains above.)
Exit:    Ends.
Todo:    Check upstream end of canal near Kerrs Rd.
Pred says... I checked this drain in 1991 before the new bit was added.
         The locals have a habit of going into the grill bit where all
         the dry flotsam hangs off the bars, pouring fuel on it and
         setting it alight. Yee Har, excitement plus!
Int:     Average
Found:   1991 Predator


Name:    Gobbledox. 1.35 km long.
Other:   Willoughby Leasure Centre Drain, Gobledox's Tomb (original Melb.
         Name.)
Descrip: Mega Huge drain. 12ft-15ft
Feat:    Size. Side slide with vertical shaft. Waterfall from 1.3m round
         drain entry near ceiling. Numerous colourful monstrous
         formations, water sprays from leaks. Various side branches
Loc:     [Sydway 35 E13]  Naremburn
Acc:     there are actually 2 entrances
         1): Where Olympia Rd dead ends at the Gore hill fwy, walk 100 m
             east to where canal goes under Willoughby Rd. 035 F13
         2): the big one!. From Willoughby Leisure centre walk e along
         small St, into Munro park, head along the northern edge towards
         NE corner near end of Pyalla St [no access to pyalla though]
         and a distinct track can be found. this track winds down the
         northern side of creek towards Northbridge bridge. After 500 -
         600 m it reaches the creek bed and you double back to
         the west along the creek [which is wide with solid rock bottom].
         035 H13
Photos:  Yes.
Exit:    both ends.
Wet:     5mm deep everywhere, Nowhere to sit down. In room at end of
         branch 2, floor dry, however to get there you wade through knee
         deep water.
Int:     Very Good
Found:   1991 Gobledox/Gilligan/Critt


Name:    The Goonies
Other:   Diamond Bay Sewer Outfall
Descrip: This is in the drain list cos thats what it is, however, unless you
         are insane, you would'nt dare enter the actual tunnel, which is
         above a 40 m drop, 2ft in dia and spewing shit into the ocean.
Feat:    What makes it worthwhile, is how you get to it: you climb down
         steps cut into solid clifface. These stop and become a bridge,
         made of drift wood and two telephone poles, that go, 15m
         over a 40m drop onto rocks. The other side has a few more
         steps then a plank which leads to a ledge with a sewer viewing
         shaft and a drop shaft into the ocean.
Hist:    Is the Diamond Bay sewer releif outfall.
Care:    Your insane to try it on anything other than a very dry, calm day.
         Ogre and Maddog did it while it was raining.
Loc:     Diamond Bay, Vaucluse Sydways: 059 E15
Acc:     Head north down east side of apartments in kink of Kimberley St.
         Look out for a lone standing arch near the edge of the cliff.
         Go through this.
Exit:    Back the way you came.
Eek!:     All the way...
Int:     Very good
Found:   1999 Maddog


Name:    Gorgie Mills. 600m long.
Descrip: Old Balloon shaped drain. Known to the waterboard as the oldest
         inner western storm drain.
Feat:    Old sandstone arch tunnel at the end of a short crawl, double
         decker tunnel, big fuckin Gpt, blocked off side tunnels, tis old.
Loc:     Summer Hill. 063 A09
Acc:     Jump in Canal from Longport St, where railway passes under, walk
         upstream Through underpass and Gorgie Mills is on the right.
         Otherwise, follow instructions for Hawthorne System.
Exit:    None
Eek!:    Bit Terdy
Int:     Average
Found:   2000 Hatchet


Name:    Gravel Socks. 800m long.
Descrip: 6 parallel drains, each 7' high by 8' wide, with regular
         connecting openings. About 600m long. See also Gobbledox and
         DiodeDox
Feat:    Tidal for most of length. Gravel on floor (under water) gets in
         your shoes, hence name. Discovered while looking for Gobbledox.
         Big Eels.
Loc:     Entrance just east of 'Suspension Bridge' on Strathallan Av.
         Other end opens to Long Bay (Middle Harbour). May be under
         water.
Acc:     Park in 'The Boulevard' Sydway 36 K15, steps down to park at cnr
         with Miller St, down thru bush around pylons of Suspension
         Bridge to bottom.
Exit:    Don't know about Long Bay end, got too deep.
Phot:    Yes.
Wet:     Ankle at entrance, Knee half way.
Int:     Average
Found:   1992 Diode/Mullet


Name:    Greendale Creek. 250m long.
Descrip: Drain room under industrial area, 10' square room accessible by
         6' rcp's
Feat:    Cool room with large balcony and roof entrance plus 4 pipes
Care:    next to cement works VIS
Hist:    none
Cond:    good, does collect flood trash though
Loc:     Sydway 239 C11, Next to 188 Harbord rd
Acc:     Jump into canal on Harbord road, walk upstream.
Exit:    Grill in roof of room
Wet:     Ankle in canal and pipe, dry in room.
Int:     Average
Todo:    Photo, explore 4'3 pipes
Eek!:    Fumes sometimes are rather solvent based.
Found:   1996 Mr India


Name:    Grilled Egg. 1km long.
Descrip: Long Drain, various forms inc. twin 5'7 conc rec, 6ft conc rec,
         6ft egg, 5ft round and 5'5ft rec.
Loc:     Kingsford. Sydways: 317 Q04
Acc:     Open section opp. Cook Ave on Issac-Smith rd.
Exit:    Grille 1: Jaques St Kingsford. Grille 2: Byrd Ave, Dacyville
Wet:     No
Todo:    Check out nearby drain in Astrolabe Park.
Int:     Boring
Found:   1997 Siologen


Name:    Guildford Park.
Descrip: 2x Rect drains at south end of canal in Guildford Park. 6'
         High.
Feat:    LH branch opens briefly in pit with wire cage above. RH branch
         goes under rail line/bridge.
Loc:     [Sydway 272 H10]
Acc:     Off Marian St.
Exit:    Ends.
Found:   1992 Diode


Name:    Gutter Seat.
Descrip: Crappy drain, with exception of spot where you can sit with
         your head in a gutter 'window'. Shine torches at cars, see
         people stare!
Loc:     [Sydway 313 H2]
Acc:     Nth West corner of Memorial Park, Bankstown. Take round drain,
         the smaller rectangular drain joins up again.  Ends at rail
         bridge over Marion St.
Wet:     No
Int:     Boring
Found:   1993 Diode


Name:    Hassall St.  300m long.
Descrip: 8'H tub shaped drain.
Feat:    None, except the usual Predator marks. Big, fairly long.
Loc:     [Sydway 80 Q17]  Parramatta.
Acc:     Near corner Station and Parkes Sts. Park in Hassall St.
Exit:    Ends
Int:     Average
Found:   1991 Predator


Name:    Hatchets. 150m long.
Descrip: Short 8ft hallway drain.
Feat:    Slide at upstream end.
Loc:     Ashfeild 295 I01
Acc:     On east side of Iron Cove Canal, off Parramatta Rd,
         opp Mcdonalds
Exit:    Other end.
Wet:     No
Photos:  Yeup
Int:     Average
Found:   1999 Hatchet


Name:    Havyatts. 600m long.
Descrip: Essentially, Rocktop's little brother, 8 ft concrete sections,
         with 9-15 ft rock sections, half Rocktop, half concrete, 500m
         long
Feat:    Satanic graf, a 40 year old concrete smoother.
Loc:     Double Bay. Sydways: 067 G03
Acc:     Downstream from Vault Drain, side drain to Kaiora St canal,
         Double bay
Photos:  Yes.
Exit:    Opens down at bay, 50m away from Clogged Clam exit.
Wet:     Tidal, groin (and yes its cold) at high tide,
         knee/ankle at low tide
Int:     Very Good
Found:   1997 Siologen


Name:    Hawkers Folly. 450m long.
Descrip: Drain. Impressive 7' entrance, soon gets lower. Branches after
         30 metres. Right branch ends in bush after another 130 metres.
         Left branch goes to interesting waterfall with a dodgy ladder.
Loc:     [Sydway 36 R17] Willoughby Bay.
Acc:     Sea wall at Little Wonga St.
Wet:     Ankle
Photo:   Yes.
Int:     Average
Todo:    Get up the second waterfall, no ladder or stepirons.
Found:   1992 Paul Hawker/Predator/Diode


Name:    Hawthorne System
Descrip: Series of short drains along the Hawthorne canal.
Feat:    9ft round semi-brick tunnels that get smaller as the canal
         heads south.
         Two old 12ft arch drains that have been blocked off and now
         support a high pressure pipe that passes over main canal.
Acc:     Enter canal from Sth side of Parramatta Rd, Lewisham. The
         underneath of the bridge here is quite impressive, though it
         has been coloured by the spray cans of homie types. Head south
         from here towards the ancient rail bridges. 063 B07
Exit:    Various open sections that can be used as exits. Canal
         eventually splits at the end to three 4ft pipes, at Hoskin's
         Park, Dulwich Hill.
Wet:     Dry
Int:     Average
Todo:    Break down blocked section of arches and find out what lies
         beyond.
Found:   1997 Ogre


Name:    Hell.
Descrip: Long small "Hardcore Mission" drain under Industrial area 4'
         rcp
Feat:    just being able to do it and survive :)
Care:    Fumes sometimes
Loc:     Sydway 239 B9, gbg E side of Victor rd, opp S driveway from
         carpark behind club. Brookvale
Acc:     Pop grate and jump in, then head S [downstream]
Exit:    GBG in West St, Manhole in footpath on S side of Winbourne Rd
Wet:     Minimal
Int:     Boring
Todo:    Complete drain, [we bailed at manhole] see if it links up with
         Greendale Ck  4'er
Eek!:    Squeeze under Pittwater Rd
Diff:    Very low.
Found:   1997 Mr India


Name:    Hercules' Pillars. 1.1km long.
Descrip: Fantastic, astounding, mind bending! More features in one drain
         than any other! Nuclear powered! Faster than the speed of
         light!
         Well anyway, its better than most (all?) Sydney drains.
Feat:    The most impressive entrance yet (the pillars). This must have
         been designed by some reincarnated Nazi architect.
         Three entrances in all. The drain is a "Y" shape.
         Nine major waterfalls.
         Forms: 9' square, 14'rec, 9'H by 1'6"W side branch, twin 6'6"
         rectangular, 5'H by 6'W (side branch).
         Rooms: One per waterfall, the largest is huge, about 26' high.
         Ladders: Waterfalls have rungs beside falls, the largest
         (the 'ladder room') has a ladder up between twin falls.
         Slides: At the pillars, and also quite sloppy at the junction.
         And:- The main tunnel (rectangular) BANKS into the curves! This
         does interesting things to your sense of balance.
         March 94: Lots of bats (Miniopteris Australis) and newly
         installed leachate conduit. This is armour plated in the big
         room.
Care:    Absolutely don't go in here if it looks like rain. The water is
         post industrial, with a dash of 'old tip'..
Loc:     Maquarie Park. 255 N2
Acc:     The Pillars are just upstream from the old stone 'Porters Ck
         Bridge' on Riverside Drive in Lane Cove River Park. This park
         gets locked up at 7.30 though, and anyway, you should see the
         Pillars by daylight.
         Most accessible entrance is off Wicks Rd, jump in bushes opp.
         Plant Nursery, next to M2. Or jump fence just north of M2 overpass
         on west side of Wicks Rd.
Exit:    Ends.
Phot:    Yes
Wet:     The Pillars entrance is shin deep. May be dry if pond drain
         pipe is not blocked.
Int:     Excellent
Found:   1993 Diode


Name:    Hereford Hell Hole
Descrip: Short, small 5' round drain going under Town Houses.
Loc:     Glebe, Nth side of Hereford Estate, Hereford St. Grill in
         street parking bays. Sydways: 064 Q02
Exit:    Two exits, south exit is inside underground car park of
         Hereford estate. North exit is a tight square shrinking
         tunnel that passes under Harold Park Raceway and out
         Johnstons Creek Canal, near skate ramp..
Wet:     knee
Int:     Boring
Found:   1997 Ogre


Name:    Humming.
Descrip: Rectangular, 8' for 200m, then rect 5' for another 200m, then
         splits to smaller (unexplored) rects, one still 5'.
         Named for hum from sub-station.
Loc:     UBD 97/B9 Oatley.
Int:     Boring
Acc:     Behind electricity sub-station at cnr Gungah Bay Rd, Roberts Av.
Found:   Early March 95, Diode & Mullet.


Name:    Jigging
Descrip: Mainly uninteresting group of tubes.
Loc:     Picnic Point. 333 A01
Acc:     Behind school, Shari Ave.
Int:     Boring
Found:   1995 Predator


Name:    Kingsford Smith.
Descrip: Access to old sewage/water works in SE corner of airport, via
         drain.
Feat:    Ruin, that may be remnants of early Syd water supply, built
         when Tank Stream got too polluted. Supposedly, a canal/pipe was
         put between Syd and what is now the Mill Pond swamp/sewage
         pit. Old airframe, junked. Vent tower with tree growing out of
         top.
Care:    Airport security. It has been known for a helicopter to take
         off and hover about the area after someone walked along the
         perimeter fence, then disappeared near the area of the drain.
Loc:     [Sydway 317 C11]
Acc:     From East side of General Holmes Drive, under it via drain, to
         gap between road and airport fence. Hole in fence where drain
         empties, crawl to cover of large concrete pipes, then follow
         them in.
Pred says: Since the installation of the turd runway the security has
         tightened. I gather the fence has been repaired. Incidentally
         most the old swamp on the east (runway) side has gone.
         Recent (Aug 95) conversations with a water board CC operative
         reveal that the place is still active, has large twin
         centrifugal pumps and a smelly, wet-wall sewer collection pit.
Found:   1992 Diode/Predator


Name     Kmart. 1.5km long.
Descrip: Feature packed drain. Full of shopping trolleys, all sorts of
         junk from a smash repair yard, a mass of scaffolding still in
         place from work on roof (forgotten?), pillars, dead-end side
         drains, skylight grilles, a tree, tonnes of rubbish and
         stagnant water.
         More trash than a K-mart store
         Entrance is twin 9' high x 10' wide, on E side of rail line.
Loc:     Fairfield, [Sydway 291 L1], between railway line and Fairlight
         Av.
Exit:    Short 5ft branch out to canal next to Kennys Lawnmower Shop on
         Hamilton St. Grille up side tunnel, comes out on cnr Barbra &
         Harris Sts
Photos:  Yes.
Todo:    Marvel at the copious amounts of trash.
Wet:     Stagnent patches, ankle.
Int:     Very Good
Found:   1994 Predator


Name:    Lavender bay. 200m long.
Descrip: Short but interesting drain.(Has been extended, Oct 97) Massive
         litter trap in room. Long slide. Unfortunately, its only 4ft
         diameter the whole length.
Loc:     [Sydway 46 J7]
Acc:     In sea wall just to E of jetty in Lavender bay (near railline).
Photos:  Yes.
Wet:     Tidal entrance.
Int:     Average
Found:   1992 Diode


Name:    Lindsay's Grille
Descrip: Floodway with grilles that open into a long, low tunnel
         running north-south under the reserve. Was pointed out to me by
         one Lindsay, a resident of the parts.
Feat:    The big grates? The sludge?
Care:    Better to do it at night. Too many people around during the
         day. Also the sludge seems pretty vile. Keep your body out of
         it if you can.
Cond:    Seems all pretty new. Looks like someone might have been down
         there before or maybe the workers were writing things up.
Loc:     Dunrossil Pk, Epping [Sydway 233 R15]
Acc:     There are two big grilles with two access grilles next to
         them. The one on the north side of the park is probably better.
Exit:    Back the way you came as far as we know. Have been told there
         is an exit somewhere in someone's backyard.
Wet:     A little bit. The water wasn't moving. There was a veil of
         smelly sludge on the ground. About half a cm to 1cm.
Int:     Boring - might get better further on.
Todo:    find out where it continues on to. Get an electric dinky.
Found:   1997 ????


Name:    (The) Loaf. 400m long.
Other:   Johnstons Ck Drain
Descrip: 9ft drain on Johnson's Ck. Side drain with Arched roof on rect
         passage.
Loc:     [Sydway 64 N5]
Acc:     Via Cardigan Pl. off Cardigan St. Entrance to drain at Sth
         side Parramatta Rd. Follow drain(high brick U shape) Nth. Loaf
         is side drain on Right.
Feat:    Shape changes. Red brick, large chamber under P'matta Rd
         If you've got graffiti, do it here.
Exit:    Loaf: Grille exit to Horden Pl 250m up the second junction.
         Johnstons Ck: ends
Int:     Good
Found:   1991 Melb. Clan


Name:    Logans Run. 500m long.
Descrip: 5ft rcp that dips and rises and bends and turns and has a few
         big grille rooms.
Loc:     West Pennant Hills Sydways: 213 L19
Acc:     Behind West Pennant Hills Sports Club, New Line Rd
Exit:    For those not 5ft rcp inclined, follow directions on wall to
         gutter grille exit halfway.
Wet:     Entrance is clogged but useful as stepping stonage.
Int:     Average
Found:   1998 Trioxide


Name:    Love Handle. 300m long.
Descrip: 5ft rcp.
Feat:    A 30m long  6ft section in the middle!
Acc:     South end of Baronia Park.
Wet:     Dry.
Int:     Boring
Found:   1998 Trioxide


Name     Lover's. 1.3km long.
Descrip: Several changes. Entrance 2x5'H rect, then 1x6'H rect,  room,
         2x6' round, rejoins, 3x5'6" round, 2 rejoin, 5' round, the
         rubble room. Has exits via small side tunnels to gutter grills
         at #3 Lilian Crescent, and at cnr of Sherwood and Bransgrove Rd
         (in Bransgr. at Eastern side of Sherwood). One of the 3x5'6"
         branches not explored.
Loc:     [Sydway 313 D16]   Revesby
Acc:     Via park off Montgommery Av.
Int:     average
Found:   1993 Diode


Name:    Macquarie. 400m long.
Descrip: Three big but short parallel rectangular drains. 9' high.
         Goes under the Macquarie shopping centre.
Feat:    None worth mentioning.
Loc:     [Sydway 235 H18]
Acc:     From Waterloo Rd, opposite Macquarie centre.
Exit:    Lower end access is via knee deep duckpond.
Int:     Average
Found:   1993 Diode


Name:    Magic's Linear Accelerator. 2.4km long.
Descrip: Uncertain. Either a sewage overflow or a stormwater drain.
Feat:    Kinda like a mine. It's got a concrete bottom (reminiscent of
         the floor of Fortress, only MUCH narrower). For the most part,
         the top and sides were carved out of the Sandstone, no
         spraycrete. In some sections, a concrete cap exists, supported
         by (!) mine-style timbers. In some sections the timbers have
         rotted a bit and the concrete cap has fallen a bit. Straws
         (again, like Fortress) hang from the concrete sections. In
         short, one might go so far as to say that it's a scaled-down
         Fortress without the cool rooms.
Care:    Replace the bricks over the entrance hole when you're finished.
Cond:    As stated previously, some of the concrete caps have fallen a
         bit (get ready to crawl here). :)
Loc:     Located down the road from ChickenPox. Go down the road until
         it turns into a fire-trail. There's a lot of decrepit junk down
         this trail...car parts, shopping trolleys, a fridge, an oven,
         and even a supermarket laser barcode scanner! Eventually you'll
         come to a kind of clearing, with real long grass on the left.
         Leave the trail here, and turn left again. Head for the bushes
         to the South and go through them. There's a bunch of settling
         tanks which reek of sewage. Sydways: 215F03
Acc:     Through a hole smashed in a concrete wall a few metres East of
         the settling tanks. The hole's a bit of a squeeze.
Exit:    I think one exists right down the other end (about a kilometre)
         in Ku-Ring-Gai Chase National Park. Manhole.
Phot:    Yes, of both the entrance, as well as inside. The entrance
         photo is of poor quality (due to the fact that they were taken
         in early evening).
Wet:     Between 5mm and 10mm throughout.
Int:     Very Good
Care:    Schistosomiasis worms on floor 1/99
Now:     No changes.
Found:   1996 Magic


Name:    Manly Non. Including Seaview.
Descrip: Two "don't bother" drains off Manly beach.
Loc:     [Sydway 259 F3]
Acc:     Drain to sea from Manly lagoon: grills on some concrete pillars
         on beach are removable. Two adjacent 6' tunnels, one full of
         sand, the other with 2' of water in it. Sometimes waist deep if
         tidal doors are shut.
         Seaview drain: Previously known only by the two barred openings
         at the base of the promenade wall near Carlton St. Two round
         manholes in footpath above - lifted these. Small room, tiny
         drains: 2' dia.
Int:     Boring
Found:   1994 Predator/Diode


Name:    Marion St.
Descrip: Plain tiny drains, only explored for bunker thirst.
Loc:     Alison Av: [Sydway 292 Q20]
Acc:     Via gutter grill in Allison Av. West side of street, near E cnr
         with Caloola St. Grill is hinged and moves easily. 5'6" here.
         About 1Km
         to:- Inside Bankstown Airport fence at cnr Birch & Allingham
         St.
Exit:    None upstream.
Todo:    Go downstream to airport exit, which is 3x5' rounds, to canal.
         Canal must become drain in airport.
Found:   1995 Diode/Predator


Name:    Marion Twins.
Descrip: Drain running under Marion St Leichhardt.
Acc:     6ft round entering Hawthorne canal, near Marion St bridge. Soon
         splits into two 5ft rounds.063 B05
Exit:    None as yet.
Wet:     1"
Int:     Boring
Found:   1997 Siologen


Name:    The Maw. 300m long.
Descrip: Drain with a very spectacular entrance
Feat:    12ft hallway shaped entrance, grilled roof, and 5ft waterfall.
Loc:     East Fairfeild 272 E19
Acc:     In the eastern end of Knight park, about 150m north of Fairfeild
         St up Donald St on the left
Wet:     Gpt at beginning, poss. shin deep.
Photos:  yes
Int:     Good
Found:   1999 Hatchet


Name:    Midnight Express. 1.3km long.
Descrip: Long rcp, 5ft, 7ft, room, 6ft bifurcated with overflow windows.
         Followed by a 10m open section, then three 5'5 rcps that enter
         a big room, then turn into 2 x 6ft rcps.
Feat:    Not unlike a Canberra Drain.
Loc:     Greystanes. 271 E03
Acc:     In large nature strip/park, north side of Maquarie Rd, 100m west
         of Dahlia St roundabout.
Exit:    Emerges next to the downstream end of Penitentiary Drain, near
         Britton and Long Sts.
Wet:     No.
Int:     Average.
Found:   1998 Siologen


Name:    Milson Park. 800m long.
Descrip: Long and ancient drain dimensions vary from 7'high by 2' to 4'
         sqr and 7' sqr.
Feat:    Variation! Contains 21 shape and construction changes, chamber in
         roof, waterfall, slide, massive entrance (new), big CDS unit
         periodic [pulsing] flow, [small wave down drain 1 inch high
         every 15-20 mins - weird, must explore]
         Highly eroded floor. Changes Shape every 20m.
Care:    sloping ramp 45deg use to be waterfall - rope provided.
Acc:     Down street grate in dip north western side of corner of Little
         Spring street and Spring street Nth Sydney [actually in Little
         Spring St] it is beneath the corner of the shopping centre car
         park. Drop into 6' brick oviform. Sydway pg 46 or 277 [J4] Best
         to park car over grate and enter from under car. If car is
         parked over grille, use open channel, which now has a huge
         vertical grille over it. The door in this may padlocked.
         Use Bolties. 046 L06
Exit:    Open channel in Milson park, cnr Hipwood & Bradley sts, Hinged
         grille in side gutter 50 m upstream of Little Spring grille,
         slightly dodgy as it opens out onto a clearway.
Wet:     ankle, the 3ft section, may involve crawling (hurts less), so
         wet knees/hands
Photo:   yes.
Int:     Excellent
Todo:    Locate source of wave [spring?].
Tip:     Best part of drain is 200m upstream of Spring St grille, beyond
         5ft rcp.
Found:   1996 Mr India


Name:    Misguided. 350m long.
Descrip: Drain that is similar in design to Hercules Pillars.
Feat:    Drain within a drain design, not unlike Hercs entrance.
         ramped entrance, 10m long crawl spot, 6ft rcp.
         Room full of  misplaced and misaligned drain sections.
Loc:     Holroyd. 272 N01
Acc:     Walk thru carpark for #20 Crescent St, jump wall at back, head down
         to canal, walk 200m downstream. Misplaced is the right hand rect.
         drain.
Exit:    Grille in misplaced room.
Int:     Average
Photos:  A couple.
Found:   1995 Prowler



Name:    Mount Druitt. 1.1km long.
Descrip: Three parallel 6ft rounds, that pass thru two large rooms,
         before splitting to a 6ft and a 5ft round. The 6ft round,
         eventually becomes an 8ft round, 7ft round, 6ft round, then
         shrinks away, having passes thru various rooms.
Feat:    Tapered ends on drains as they enter the rooms, they look like
         the exhaust pipes on supercharged cars.
Loc:     Mt Druitt. SYDWAY [288 C4]
Acc:     South side of Kurrajong Ave, between the two streets that make
         up Sunblest Cres. Over fence.
Exit:    Bolted grille at end of 3ft pipe, get a spanner or don't
         bother.
Wet:     Entrance is knee deep and dirty, but avoidable. Use available
         stepping stones, once in drain, do the splits
Int:     Good
Found:   1995 Prowler


Name:    Mr India's Vestibule. 30m long.
Descrip: Not a very big drain, but decent sized room inside, along with
         some interesting old stonework.
Feat:    Slide out into canal. Its fun, and a worthy challenge.
Loc:     Johnstons Creek canal, under Booth Street bridge. 064 N04
Acc:     Climb through small sandstone drain entering canal.
Exit:    None as yet. Drain not explored past steep slide.
Photos:  Yes
Wet:     1"
Int:     Good for stonework.
Found:   1997 Mr India


Name:    M2 Marconi. 400m long.
Descrip: 5ft rcp.
Feat:    Big Grille rooms, a small steep slide.
Loc:     Maquarie Park 235 K17
Acc:     To the N.W. side of Khartoum Rd under the M2 Hwy.
Wet:     No.
Exit:    Ends at back of GEC Marconi Building.
Int:     Average
Found:   1998 Mr India


Name:    M2 Doubledecker.
Descrip: 3X10ft rec drains.
Feat:    A 10ft wide by 4ft high double decker drain, coming in from
         the roof.
Loc:     Carlingford. 233 H11
Acc:     On Westmore Dr, near Dickson Ave. Go over fence onto land
         on which sits a high power transmission pylon. Go south
         down into bushes.
Exit:    Ends.
Wet:     Swamp at either end.
Int:     Average


Name:    M2 Tollplaza
Descrip: Straight, relatively short 6ft rectangular underneath M2
         tollplaza.
Feat:    Some churnblocks at end
Loc:     North Ryde. 235 F14
Acc:     Best access is from upstream end. Park in valley on Talavera road,
         between Herring Road and Culloden Road. Enter drain where creek
         passes under road -avoiding the fence.
Exit:    Way you came.
Wet:     Slightly
Int:     Average
Found:   1998 Trioxide


Name:    Muffler Cliche'. 300m long.
Descip:  Old disused water supply tunnel.
Feat:    Huge Canal, grilled off entrance, "1905" plaque, nine cross
         hatching churn barriers (like a muffler), 9ft high, 300m long.
Loc:     Prospect. 270 N03
Acc:     From the kink in Hyland Rd walk north towards the Boral Quarry,then
         west at the gate in the fence and walk 250m to the western end of
         the tunnel. Jump into canal and squeeze thru hole in vertical
         grill.
Exit:    Other end Padlocked.
Wet:     No.
Photos:  Yes
Care:    Keep in mind that the canal is still connected to Prospect
         Reservoir.
Todo:    Say hello to Sydneys only Drain Turtles.
Int:     Good
Found:   1998 Siologen


Name:    Mulletdox. 400m long.
Descrip: Older drain, just down stream from DiodeDox. Starts at rail
         bridge and ends just below Channel 9 TV mast. Has large side
         branch, near lower end, this gets smaller and goes for ages
         So, in order, the drains on Tunks Creek from the upstream end
         are:-
              DiodeDox, Mulletdox, Gobbledox, & Gravel Socks.
Feat:    Old fashioned bread loaf shape!
Loc:     [Sydway 35 C12]
Acc:     Same as for DiodeDox, but go downstream.
Exit:    Main tunnel ends. Side branch leads to several grilles in bush
         near Artarmon reserve.
Wet:     Shoe
Int:     Average
Found:   1992 Mullet/Diode


Name:    1924. 450m long
Descrip: A big-small-big-small-big-small-big drain that is a mix of very
         old and new sections
Feat:    Old chambers(8ft), with sandstone floors, walls and concrete
         ceilings that still have the rendering newspaper stuck to them.
         The newspaper is readable and all dated 1924, highly amusing
         advertorial and editorial articles. Downstream end is 5ft
         waterfalls, knee deep Gpt, then tidal exit to Cooks River.
Loc:     Dulwich Hill Sydways: 295 R16.
Acc:     Same as for Debris Drain, though 1924 is downstream, going
         under Ewart St towards Cooks River. Look for a large grille in
         the road.
Photos:  Yes
Exit:    Yeah, maybe, at low tide.
Wet:     Shin, unavoidable Gpt.
Int:     Average
Now:     Half of first chamber has been removed and a gpt diversion tank
         installed.
Found:   1998 Siologen/Dirge


Name:     Nightvision.
Descrip:  800m long 7ft rcp with big grille rooms every 50-100 m.
Feat:     Very unusual big, double, upstream grilleroom with lotsa
          drains entering it.
Loc:      Graystanes
Acc:      Either thru big grille room in grass verge, cnr Britton and
          Long Sts or via 2x 5ft rcps in creek, 30m south of cnr of
          Britton and Long Sts.
Exit:     Many grilles
Wet:      Gpt at base of waterfall up tunnel from big unusual grille
          room, otherwise, dry.
Int:      Good
Found:    2000 Siologen



Name:     No Expense Spared. 300m long.
Descrip:  5'8 rcp, with a few slides.
Feat:     Mega quality grilles, a delight to use.
Loc:      Cherrybrook. 213 F15
Acc:      50m downstream (N) of Cycleway drain, in  reserve, Cnr
          WoodgroveAve Hillgate Pl.
Exit:     Any of the hinged mega grilles.
Wet:      Maybe, found during rain.
Int:      Boring
Found:    1999 Trioxide/Siologen


Name:    (The) Oasis. 400m long.
Descrip: 15' <> by 8' ^ drain under Manly Vale industrial area.
Feat:    Size and garden in churn bollards
Care:    Vis
Loc:     Sydway 258 Q1 NW corner of West Manly Park
Acc:     Climb down into canal from park, walk upstream.
Exit:    Ends and grill halfway.
Wet:     ankle in middle only [middle of 15' wide box pipe]
Int:     Good
Todo:    explore side pipes
Eek!:    massive amounts of water must rush through
Found:   1996 Mr India


Name:    (The) Oasis Extension. 300m long.
Descrip: 5' twin box pipe under residential and part golf course.
Feat:    Avoiding golfers and handling the knee deep water.
Care:    Golfers don't like introverts of society.
Loc:     Sydway 259 A1 open channel E side of Addiscombe rd over fence
         at Kenneth Rd Intersection.
Acc:     Jump fence next to guard rail on Addiscombe Rd, jump into
         canal,walk upstream.
Exit:    Opens into golfcourse at upstream end [follow canal up to "Oasis"
Wet:     Knee
Int:     Boring
Todo:    Boat it
Eek!:    is rather wet and boring
Found:   1997 Mr India


Name:    Ogre's Hovel. 300m long.
Descrip: Large wide drain running adjacent to Rushcutter's Bay canal.
Feat:    Upstairs room with view of a nice clean pipe feeding drain. Old
         egg shaped sewer tunnel that branches off and runs over
         Rushcutter's Bay drain, dry and not in use.
Acc:     After exploring Rushcutter's bay drain, continue south under
         bridge, and out into main canal. Turn north again. Or enter
         canal from Sth corner of Bayswater Rd and Neild Ave, take right
         side drain. sydways:067 A01
Wet:     Tidal, varies from dry to knee
Exit:    Sea exit next to Rushcutter's Bay canal
Int:     Average
Found:   1997 Ogre


Name:    Orphan School Creek.
Descrip: Old varied drain running under the Children's Hospital in
         Camperdown and Annandale.
Feat:    Various structures. Sandstone sections.
Acc:     4ft square tunnel coming off Johnson's Ck canal, under Wigram
         Rd Bridge. Sydways: 064 N04
Exit:    Manhole at right hand bend is openable (going upstream).
Wet:     Usually dry.
Int:     Boring
Found:   1991 Melb. Clan


Name:    Penitentiary
Descrip: 600m long  7ft rcp.
Feat:    Massive locked gate over upstream end.
         Huge and really weird grille room, looks like an underground
         car port, dry, leaves strewn, offset from main drain.
Loc:     Greystanes
Acc:     Downstream end is 100m up canal, just 20m west of the corner
         of Britton St and Long St. Take right most tunnel. Left two
         are Midnight Express.
Exit:    Gated exit, can be squeezed over. Emerges at Water Supply
         pipelines, 300 east of Cooper St.
Wet:     No
Int:     Good
Found:   2000 Fishie/Siologen


Name:    Penrith. 1.6m long
Descrip: 3 parallel 8ft pipes, two of which join up in a big room, then
         split off to a 6ft rec that becomes an 8ft round; a dead end
         6ft round; and twin 5ft rounds that end beneath a huge grille
         in the north west cnr of Penrith Mall carpark. The other is the
         same length, has a single 5ft branch and d.ends in a 8ft room.
Feat:    Various skylight grilles, lotsa Bats.
Loc:     Penrith. SYDWAY [255 G8]
Acc:     Located between Road and Rail Bridge over Nepean River.
Exit:    A squeeze between the elevated Grille and the sidewalk, 30cm
         wide.
Wet:     Ankle at entrance, avoidable.
Int:     Very Good
Found:   1997 Prowler


Name:    Perseverance. 600m long.
Descrip: Interesting Drain with some low sections.
Feat:    Room reminiscent of a Canberra drain
Loc:     Padstow. sydways: 313 J13
Acc:     canal in small park off Arab Rd
Exit:    Grille in Playford Park, along Nth fence.
Int:     Average
Found:   1995 Diode/Predator


Name:    Pete's. 1.3 km long
Other:   Petes Love Canal
Descrip: Round, at least 1Km long, 8' dia at entrance. Two branches with
         small rounds to right, one with excellent echo. Eventually
         becomes 5' covered brick canal. Exit via thin concrete slab
         cover in grass beside gutter in dip of Princes St, between Park
         St and Grove Av.
Loc:     50m to W of boatramp off Morshead Dr, Oatley Bay. [Sydway 334 N4].
Exit:    If you want to mission past the 4ft sections of the covered
         canal, the drain eventually ends on Dardaneilles St.
Wet:     No
Int:     Average
Found:   1991 Predator


Name:    Phat Ego. 900m long.
Descrip: 8-7ft rect drain.
Feat:    Huge skylight grilles, one about 12m long, replacing roof in
         sections.
Loc:     Fairfeild East. 272 C19
Acc:     South east end of Knight Pk, starts under Fairfeild St, deep canal.
Exit:    Emerges in park, just east of Seville St.
Photos:  Yeup
Int:     Good
Found:   1999 Hatchet


Name:    Playschool. 500m long.
Descrip: Rcp Drain.
Feat:    Rooms, sloping bits, 6ft high.
Loc:     Banksia. 316 B12.
Acc:     Go down laneway from Chestnut St near corner with Short St.
         go up rectangle drain. Gets bigger after 100m.
Exit:    Maybe grilles.
Int:     Average
Wet:     No.
Found:   2000 Dirge.


Name:    Predator's. 1.3km long.
Other:   Predators Tomb (Melbourne name)
Descrip: Long drain with interesting changes, slide, roof dips, etc.
Feat:    Twin 7' high rect. entrance, also entrance to separate drain
         Wired. Some access shafts are very high, one with a grating
         balcony half way up. Lots of branches.
Loc:     [Sydway 74 M16]
Acc:     Through hole in wire fence at East side of kink in Sydney Steel
         Rd.
Exit:    Grille up  2ft side pipe
Photos:  Yes.
Wet:     No
Int:     Good
Found:   1991 Predator


Name:    Prosthetic. 350m long.
Descrip: 3 x 5'8 rectangles, split to 4 rectangles.
Feat:    The left hand tunnel has a window on its left side halfway
         thru. This window leads to an adjacent drain that goes nowhere,
         dead ends in both directions. In the opposite corner of this
         drain there is a 2ft pipe that leads to the Soul Cage.
Loc:     South Strathfeild 294 H15
Acc:     Follow canal downstream from the corner of Juno Pde and
         Punchbowl Rd.
Exit:    Ends near exit from Enfeild drain, eastern side of Marshalling
         Yards
Wet:     No, but side drain is ankle deep in wet sand.
Int:     2
Todo:    If your in the area, take alook at the lake in the empty
         block of land behind the Marshalling Yards. The lake is HUGE! and
         has islands, etc. Lake is a product of TNT Explosives that were
         tested by the chemical works that used to inhabit the site
Found:   1991 Predator


Name:    Prowler's. 800m long.
Other:   Prowlers Tomb
Descrip: 6ft rec drain that becomes 7ft almost straight away
Feat:    Interesting grille room, triple split into 5ft rounds, and
         joins up again, eventually exiting in an unknown overgrown
         swamp in the back of a wrecker's yard.
Loc:     Padstow  [Sydway 313 L8].
Acc:     Find a canal just north of the Bankstown Substation, and follow
         it westwards, to the entrance adjacent to Fairford Rd.
Photos:  Yes:
Exit:    Either thru 5ft rounds, or via dislodged section in final
         grille, before split.
Int:     good
Found:   1995 Predator/Prowler/Diode


Name:    Pumping Station. 1.6km long.
Descrip: Long rectangular drain.
Feat:    Used to have a big pumping chamber but this was removed in 1999
         when the topside building was demolished.
Loc:     [Sydway 75 G13], 167 Wyndham St, Alexandria.
Acc:     Over metal rail fence into open channel.
Exit:    Manhole in small park near cnr Marriott & Boronia Sts Redfern.
         Long way up tunnel.
Wet:     Ankle
Cond:    Pumping Station as such doesn't exist anymore, all machinery
         removed, however, large chamber still exists.
Photos:  Yes.
Int:     Average
Todo:    Need 'DEV' (Drain Exploration Vehicle) to follow all the way.
Found:   1991 Melb. Clan


Name:    Purgatories Travelator. 400m long.
Descrip: Another old disused Water Supply Tunnel.
Feat:    Canal empties into 10m deep pit, that has a 12ft rcp in it.
         The pits(one at each end)are grilled off, with hatches and ladders
         descending into them. The pits are surrounded by Turreted buildings
         with roof access. The tunnel is 300m long and is huge on
         atmosphere!
Loc:     Greystanes. 271 E03
Acc:     100m north east of Dahlia St And Maquarie Rd roundabout in the
         middle of the large reserve. Entrance to building is door on south
         side. Is presently padlocked.
         No access from canal as large metal gates block access.
Exit:    Other end.
Wet:     Bone Dry.
Photos:  Yes.
Cond:    Outer layer of tunnel is chipping off, lots of garbage and evidence
         of fires and squatters.
Int:     Very Good
Eek!:    When in use, this tunnel would be filled to the roof and would have
         acted as a giant siphon
Found:   1998 Siologen


Name:    Pyramid .
Descrip: The 'Pyramid' is a massive steel grill (10' high) over a
         vertical deep shaft in Brennan park near the rail line.
         Definitely kiddie proof. The drain is short, but has three
         different forms, one of which is round corrugated iron 5'5"
         dia. (So is the shaft).  Shin deep pool. Very bad erosion
         undercutting south wall of brick arch tunnel past pool.
Now:     This drain is now a side drain in the Swoo system
Loc:     [Sydway 45 E3]
Acc:     Via Swoo, take first left hand tunnel in Swoo, to see Pyramid
         from topside go down embankment from Brenen park.
Photos:  Yes
Wet:     Shin
Found:   1993 Diode/Predator


Name:    Quaint. 350m long.
Descrip: Short drain running under Lilyfeild Trainyards
         and roadway. Branches off Whites Creek.
Feat:    5'9 tub shaped drain changing to 5ft brick/sandstone arch. Two
         shafts with shared grille at change, usually gushing with
         waterfall effect.
Loc:     Lilyfield. At downstream end of Whites  Creek. Sydways 054 K20
Acc:     Enter Whites Creek canal at Brenan St bridge. Take smaller
         canal on north side of bridge upstream. Entrance is about 200m
         up canal.
Exit:    Ends. Grille above waterfall is now openable. (Bolts have been
         removed)
Photos:  Yes
Wet:     1"
Int:     Average
Found:   1997 Siologen


Name:    Quasi. 400m long.
Other:   Eastwood Drain
Descrip: Seemed pretty good (after doing Deep Throat). It's a 'twin',
         with each side having: 6' 5" rectangular, 8' chamber, 6'
         rounded diamond, 7' rectangular, short open, then a huge under-
         rail chamber, mega tags. Pity the stupid bastards didn't roof
         over the last little bit!
         Total length about 500m.
Loc:     [Sydway 254 J4] Under Eastwood shopping centre.
Acc:     Between car park and Hillview lane.
Phot:    Yes.
Int:     Average
Wet:     No
Found:   1993 Predator


Name:    Queens. 1.1km long.
Descrip: 6'1 oval drain, long, 9ft arch entrance, with underrail chamber,
         splits.
Loc:     Over fence opp. Queen St on Croydon Rd, Ashfield, side drain to
         Iron Cove canal. Sydways: 295 M10
Acc:     Walk in...
Exit:    Big grille on upstream side of rail chamber, Burwood.
Int:     Average
Wet:     no.
Found:   1994 Predator


Name:    Quickie
Descrip: hardcore 3' box converting to 1'9 under Allambie residential
Feat:    just doing it!
Care:    Look after your back
Cond:    good, not too worn
Loc:     Sydway 238 L16, bottom of Wandella Res
Acc:     Walk to bottom of park, enter canal, do drain.
Exit:    opens into bushland
Phot:    No
Wet:     ankle or less
Int:     Boring
Todo:    nothing
Eek!:    scary small drain.
Found:   1997 Mr India


Name:    Rangers. 450m long.
Descrip: Very old and interesting under rail drain.
Feat:    Brick arch, twin sandstone hallway sections,
         slide, heapsa moths.
Loc:     Edna May Hunt Sanctuary, Epping. 234 K20.
Acc:     Over fence at base of railway enbankment in Edna M.H.
         Sanctuary, which is at the S end of Yarran Ave.
Exit:    To Terrys Creek.
Wet:     Knee deep at exit.
Int:     Good


Name:    Reo. 200m long
Descrip: Rcp
Feat:    Heavy steel entrance, 5ft waterfall in a huge room,
         reinforcing rod vertical grille on upstream exit.
Loc:     Merrylands 272 N01
Acc:     Climb wall at rear of 20 Crescent St, walk 200m d/s
         to rcp on left of canal. Right rect. is Misplaced drain.
Exit:    Squeeze under reo grille.
Int:     Average
Found:   1995 Prowler


Name:    Red Hill Drain
Descrip: 4'- 6' rcp down big hill
Feat:    Skateboarding it
Care:    Has numerous 2' waterfalls
Cond:    As new!
Loc:     Sydway 238 L2, SW side of Penrhyn Dr, Near Supply Ave
         intersection.
Acc:     Enter in via hinged gutter grill and descend step irons
Exit:    Pipe flows out into creek next to Willandra Rd
Phot:    No
Wet:     Not really
Int:     Average
Eek!:    steep in sections
Found:   1997 Mr India


Name:    Revesby Rail.
Descrip: Drain following rail line past Revesby station. Starts off 6'
         round, is 5' at exit grill beside rail line near Hendy Av.
         Grills before this are immovable. Continues on, but gets
         smaller and smaller.
Loc:     [Sydway 313 D16]   Revesby
Acc:     Via park off Montgomery Av. (Next to Lover's Drain)
Int:     Boring
Found:   1993 Diode


Name:    Ribbed.
Descrip: 5'0ft round drain.
Feat:    Small rooms, rubber ribs held in place by metal ringlets (for
         extra stimulation!!!)
Loc:     Rose Bay. 058 Q18
Acc:     At north end of small beach, north of Vickery Ave.
Wet:     Tidal, lo tide: dry, hi tide: knee.
Int:     Boring
Found:   1998 Siologen


Name:    Rick's. 200m long.
Other:   Ricks Tomb, Wooloomooloo Sewer
Descrip: Filthy tidal drain in Sth end of Woolloomooloo Bay, 5ft high,
         200m long with old sandstone sections, basically just a 24hr
         sewer overflow.
Feat:    Big turds make this drain a right turd. It has a real sense of
         nastiness in it especially when one wades into it, alone at
         11pm on a mondaynight. Was found by the Melbourne Clan in 1991,
         they floated into it at hi tide with this acid head named Rick.
         Rick took a bad turn with his LSd and freaked out, causing
         the inflatable to grind against the drain and subsequently
         de-flate. A video Camera was lost. It was revisted by Siologen,
         in 1998, who sincerly regrets doing so.
Loc:     Woolloomooloo Bay. Sydways:056 N17
Acc:     To the west of the finger wharf, its the left of two drains
         that sit side by side.
Wet:     If your 6ft tall itll be just below yer crotch, if yer less
         than 6ft tall, use a boat
Int:     Average for the old sandstone arch, boring otherwise.
Care:    Usual cautions in relation to big fat turds, tampons & other
         excretia.
Found:   1991 Melb. Clan


Name:    Rocktop '5A'. 2.3km long.
Descrip: 2Km rectangular drain, 9' high, 8' wide.
Feat:    Length, alternating concrete/bare rock roof, concrete pimples
         on rock roof. Side shaft with pool and impassable vertical
         slide. Two 4' dia round drains above slide, one bricked up 3m
         in. Stalactite straws, assorted car parts, steering locks, etc.
         huge double grille in roof.
Care:    Dog in #5 Malakoff barks its head off.
Loc:     [Syd 316 D2], Between #5 and #7 Malakoff St Marrickville, to
         exit on Cooks river (Warren park)
Acc:     Malakoff St: Over 8' high colorbond metal fence, between
         houses.
Wet:     River: Low tide: knee level. High tide: swim, 1' air space.
Photos:  Yup.
Int:     Very Good
Todo:    How to get to drain above water slide? Plank with hook to fit
         rungs in shaft?
Found:   1992 Predator


Name:    Rollerderby. 400m long.
         Descrip: Y shaped Drain, main tunnel is 6ft as is western tail,
         eastern tail is 2ft h x 4ft, but.....
Feat:    ....its as smooth as a babies bum, goes down a long slope and
         has a 4ft slide where it becomes 6ft, so, you louge it(ride a
         skateboard lieing down), all the way, then if yer bearings 'll
         handle it, skate through the rest of the drain as its smooth
         too. If you dont have a skateboard, dont bother with the 2ft bit..
         oh yeah, and you suck too.
Loc:     North Ryde, Badajoz Rd. Sydways: 255 L09
Acc:     West tail: D/s of cnr of Badajoz + Norfolk Way.
         East Tail: 4ft rcp on Hospital side of Badajoz Rd opp Pacey Ave.
Exit:    Ends at Harford St.
Int:     Without Skateboard: Boring, With Skateboard: Good.
Care:    Use old skateboard, slow down when you reach the slide.
Found:   1998 Siologen


Name:    Rookwood.
Descrip: Various drain sections, some open parts, drain under rail
         lines. In Rookwood cemetery: very unusual 'serpentine' open
         channel, 8' deep by 2' wide.
Feat:    Vertical shaft under rail lines. Average height is 11ft.
Loc:     [Sydway 273 R14]
Acc:     SE corner of Phillips Park. Follow South for Rookwood. To see
         'serpentine' drive into Rookwood from East St, go to dirt road
         parallel to Railway St.
Exit:    Opens.
Int:     Good
Found:   1993 Diode


Name:    Rooster's Egg. 500m long.
Other:   Burzum's Cavern
Descrip: Short drain with  a huge horseshoe shaped room(16ft high)
         halfway thru, under Sydenham Station.
Feat:    Humpty's party room. Egg shape looks like it was an old train
         tunnel section.
Loc:     Sydenham. Sydways: 074-L17
Acc:     Enter canal on NE side of station. head downstream. Around the
         corner going upstream is Three Pits drain.
Photos:  Yes, but dodgy flash exposure occured due to tired batteries.
Exit:    Ends, but jump over north side of canal and return to starting
         spot via Three Pits drain. (Two 6x8 ft squares)
Int:     Good
Found:   1991 Melb. Clan


Name:    Rushcutters Bay. 1.5km long.
Descrip: Storm water drain.
Feat:    Large tunnel, junction, 8' round pipe, big waterfall followed
         by a slide in old arch shaped tunnel.
Loc:     [Sydway 67 A1]
Acc:     South end of Rushcutters Bay park, at Bayswater Rd.
Todo:    Explore all branches.
Care:    Consistent sewage overflow.
Photos:  Yes.
Int:     Very Good
Found:   1989 Melb. Clan. Recognised as the first "decent" drain found in
         Sydney.



Name:    Scorpion's. 1.3km long.
Other:   Scorpions Tomb, Scorpions Flaps
Descrip: Drain at Bondi beach. Exit is at south end of beach, but no
         access due to big grille.
Feat:    8' round pipe, chamber, dual sloping large round pipes to hatch
         room. Giant fibreglass round hatches. Need two people to lift
         and clamp, rope to hold open. More sloping pipe, to large 'lake
         room'.The 'flaps room to lake room' affair is duplicated
         further up as well.
Care:    Make sure hatches are securely fixed open, you would not be
         able to push open from the inside.
Loc:     [Sydway 69 B8]
Acc:     Chop padlock off either of large grilles in bondi beach park, one
         is next to the skateboard ramp, the other 300m north. May already
         be unlocked.
Exit:    None yet.
Phot:    Predator, Diode, Siologen.
Wet:     Dry, except for pools, which are about 9' deep. Take Inflatable
         dingys/lilos
Int:     Good
Todo:    Siphon lake, go further. Explore RH 5'6' round drain from
         entrance.
Log:     9/6/93 Diode, Mullet, Predator. Took gear for hatches, plus
         pipes to siphon lake. partial success - drained lake down 4',
         but its about another 5' deep! Gave up, explored RH round - it
         goes to ANOTHER flaps room with another lake. So there are 4
         flaps: #1,2 in room near entrance MH, #3,4 in room up RH round
         drain. On surface again, found large rectangular hatches to
         other side of both lake rooms. Entered, explored drains on
         other side of lakes for some distance. A bit
         disappointing, just plain, smallish drains. Drain from flaps #1
         & 2 is smaller, branches soon. Other one is 5' and goes a long
         way, not explored far.
Found    1992 Predator/ Diode


Name:    The Scout.
Descrip: Open section in Drain in Brookvale Scout Hall land. 5' us, 6'Ds
Feat:    unknown drain
Care:    Fumes [industrial area]
Cond:    ok, tad old
Loc:     Sydway 239 A10 in Scout Hall land on Windborne Rd [just along
         from Maccas corner
Acc:     Climb over fence, walk in
Exit:    ????? rumoured to go as far as the brick works
Phot:    no
Wet:     ankle
Int:     ?
Now:     ????? scout hall land to be sold
Todo:    explore it!
Eek!:    gully that pipes open into is rather deep!
Found:   1997 Mr India


Name:    2nd Pennant Hills
Descrip: Named for gutter grill which used to be outside the
         2nd Pennant Hills Scout Hall, but the scout hall
         has since been demolished. It's a low low drain and this
         gives an indication of the extreme keeness of Stray as a
         teenager. Ends in someones garden...they have a dog.
Feat:    Age of drain from newspaper on roof - Historically 1950's
Loc:     [Sydway 214 F20]
Acc:     From gutter grill Shields lane
Exit:    Possible exit in park at end of Warne St
Wet:     Shoe
Int:     Boring.
Found:   1997 Stray.


Name:    Seventeen Steps.
Descrip: Not huge, but lots of 1m high waterfalls. Strays First drain-
         I was shorter then so it was cool... now im not so sure.
Feat:    Waterfalls!
Loc:     Thornleigh. Sydways: 214 F16
Acc:     Clamber down to drain entrance under small footbridge at the
         end of Edmundson Close.
Exit:    Heaps of Grilles, all in quiet streets.
Wet:     Shoe
Int:     Average
Found:   1998 Stray


Name:    Shea's Creek. 2.6km long.
Descrip: "Wrong way Up" elliptical... 10 feet wide and 6 feet high.
         Loops up with adjacent 6ft x 9ft brick/concrete rectangular.
Feat:    Double Loop,(go in one tunnel, come out the other), small, bone dry
         side tunnels, lounge room within loop!
Loc:     Alexandria. Sydways: 075-B15.
Acc:     NE cnr of Sydney Park. Jump in canal off Mitchell Rd, near
         carpark in park. head upstream. Choose either entrance.
Photos:  Yes.
Exit:    Whichever entrance you choose, exit from the other.
Wet:     Shin in sections
Int:     Good
Found:   1990 Melb. Clan


Name:    Short, Fat and Grid. 1.3km long.
Descrip: Three drains along one canal, listed as one, cos that's how
         you'll probably do em. (Apart from bent over)
         Grid is about 800m and has some 10' high sections, as well as a
         very unusual ceiling feature in one section (the 'grid').
         Fat is 300m, a wide arch, 6' in centre.
         Short is hardly worth mentioning.
Loc:     [Sydway 316 E2]
         Short: Under Premier St.
         Fat: Warren Rd to Schebel St.
         Grid: Between Myrtle St and rail line, to middle of Frampton
         St.
Hint:    Do Grid by itself.
Acc:     Channel at west end of Mackey Park. Follow up thru Short, Fat,
         Grid.
Wet:     No
Photo:   Yes.
Int:     Overall: Good
Pred says: The Prowler and Pred expo discovered this drain's upstream end
         has been extended and there is a new feature in the roof...
         a pot-plant rack (you'll understand when you see it).
Found:   1993 Diode


Name:    Sin City. 880m long.
Descrip: 880 metres of 7ft concrete rectangle, with a bifurcated
         upstream end.
Feat:    A strange overflow into a capped canal.
Loc:     Beverly Hills. Sydways:  314-K15
Acc:     Upstream entrance in park at cnr Edgbaston Rd and Melvin St
         South.
Exit:    Outlet near cnr Tooronga and Bundarra St
Wet:     No
Int:     good for skateboarding thru.
Found:   1983 Predator. Said to be the first Sydney Clan "Found" Drain.


Name:    Siolodrain. 400m long.
Descrip: 4ft rcp drain with six waterfalls in it. Fall heights between
         3-15ft.
Feat:    Low entrance, which is flooded to ceiling. Falls are in
         vertical rcps that are rather like.... Silos.
Loc:     Rozelle. 054 K13
Acc:     In the seawall in the Balmain Cove Townhouse
         complex, off Terry St. Lift big hatches. Will probably have
         manhole access when they finish its construction.
Exit:    Manhole.
Wet:     Grovelling at entrance ensures getting soaked.
Int:     Boring
Care:    Security
Found:   1998 Siologen


Name:    Skylight
Descrip: Starts big, but shrinks and branches-larger branch(right)
         ends up in someones garden near The Esplanade, smaller branch heads
         towards Headon Pk?
         New work in 90's added the twin pipe and skylight. There are a few
         other drains in the area that go under roads, then become canals in
         private gardens. Perhaps in 100 years time they'll cover em all up
         to create a superb network.
Feat:    Not much except for the huge skylight!
Loc:     Thornleigh 214 F16
Acc:     Just walk in from some vacant land at the cnr of Eddy and Tillock
         Sts.
Exit:    None
Wet:     Shoe
Int:     Average
Found:   1998 Stray


Name:    Sludgebucket Drain. 150m long.
Other:   Wooloomooloo Sewer
Descrip: Ricks other half. 5'8ft, tidal, dead ends at a brick wall and
         waist deep mud. Wall has hole in it that could either lead to
         the Ricks sewer, or on to a decent drain
Loc:     Woolloomooloo Bay. Sydways: 056 N17
Acc:     West of finger wharf, is the western drain, Ricks is eastern.
Exit:    None.
Wet:     Thigh the whole way. At low tide.
Int:     Boring
Todo:    Get thru mud, check hole out.
Eek:     Dont lose shoes in mud.
Found:   1998 Siologen


Name:    Strathfield . 1.6km long.
Descrip: Drain with security camera pointed at entrance and infra-red
         detectors. 6ft tall elliptical.
Feat:    Two 7ft rooms, High security, iron gates, (like garage doors),
         long and unchanging.
Care:    Dunno if security stuff actually works.
Loc:     Strathfield. Sydways: 274 P19
Acc:     Jump fence, cnr Beresford and Elva Sts, walk upstream, smiling
         at camera, the watchers of the camera don't seem to care
Photos:  Yes, a couple.
Exit:    proceed past gates until a pipe protrudes into the drain. Get
         in this and pop the grille to get out somewhere along the south
         gutter of Russel St.
Int:     Boring
Found:   1991 Melb Clan


Name:    Stringybark Ck
Descrip: 6ft rcp, followed by 4ft rcp.
Feat:    None.
Loc:     Lane Cove North. 034 L11
Acc:     Stringybark creek, west end of park between Karilla and Murray Sts.
Exit:    Grilles at other end of park. May be locked.
Wet:     Knee at entrance.
Int:     Boring.
Found:   2000 Dtrog


Name:    Surprise. 600m long.
Descrip: Wouldn't be a surprise if I told you. Do it!
         Best feature: about the 3rd change, or is it the 4th? Height
         ranges from 8ft-10ft.
Loc:     [Sydway 334 E3]
Acc:     Below elevated sewer, behind RSL club off Depot rd, Mortdale
Todo:    Lilo down it in a flood.
Wet:     Bottom end is knee deep
Int:     Good
Found:   1994 Diode/Mullet


Name:    Surveyors Ck
Descrip: Small but interesting hardcore drain.
Feat:    Patched up sections, dead end side tunnels, debris blockages,
         grille room to flood plain at upstream end. Old.
Loc:     Penrith 225 D17
Acc:     Just upstream of where Mulgoa Rd crosses the Surveyors Ck reserve,
         north of Fairfeild Pl.
Exit:    Grilles.
Wet:     Knee deep in parts.
Int:     Average.



Name:    Swoo. 1.3km long.
Other:   Swoo 2.
Descrip: This was once a very old drain running under Balls Head
         Gasworks. Demolition of the gasworks caused various sections of
         the Drain to collapse, and so a new drain was installed.
Feat:    Five slides with ropes installed for easier access, 7'5ft
         pipe, Old stone entrance, Access to Pyramid drain at junction,
         Access to  old SWOO via 2ft pipe (clearly marked) with massive
         stone arch and tunnels to nowhere. Big grilles leading to new
         housing development.
Loc:     Wollstonecraft to Balls Head. Sydways: 045 D02
Acc:     Down stairs from Belmont Ave to Park. Follow Creek downstream
         to 5ft arch entrance.
Exit:    Drain eventually leads to impassible trash traps. Better to get
         out one of the many grills, or back the way you came.
Wet:     Dry in most parts, ANKL in some places.
Photos:  Loads.
Int:     Excellent
Eek:     Dare you venture into Mr India's Poo Pit....
Now:     Old Swoo has had 5 building foundation pillars parked thru its
         roof. Still acc. but is flooded knee deep due to spraycrete leakage
         Fuckwits!!!
Found:   Old Swoo: 1993 Diode/Predator. Swoo II: 1998 Ogre/Mr India


Name:    Sydney. 1.8km long.
Other:   Ultimo Drain
Descrip: Ancient  drain with steps, slides and a lot of rubble. Strewn with
         barnacles. Tidal entrance. Natural thing to explore when
         floating out of Darling Harbour Drain.
Loc:     Sydney, Darling Harbour. Sydways: 025 F20
Acc:     Under wharf, Darling harbour, behind pollution netting, cockle
         bay promenade adjacent to western distributor. Most westerly
         drain is overflow, east of that is main tunnel, east of that
         are the Darling Harbor Drains
Exit:    Trimar in main tunnel, is marked with Melbourne Tags,
         topside location is a pedestrian isle directly north of the Peir
         st overpass near Darling Drive. Other exit is emergency only
         as it comes out in the back dock of the Carlton Crest
         Hotel Carpark in Ultimo. This exit is 350m up the right
         hand split and is found via light coming in thru two
         lightweight metal plates. Deflate boats, lift, exit and
         run to carpark doors. Trimar: 027 G1
Care:    Is filled to roof with water at high tide.
Wet:     Boat/swim, it is possible to walk the entire drain, your just up
         to your neck in water
Int:     Very Good
Found:   1991 Melb. Clan


Name:    Sydney Slide.  350m long.
Descrip: Drain with a long steep slide. 5'8ft
Feat:    Excellent shoe grip test track.Eroded hole in floor near top-
         this will be very interesting in a few years time.
Loc:     [Sydway 46 C12] Cremorne
Acc:     At the bottom of Millet Rd, off Avenue Rd.
Exit:    Gap in roof of brick arch chamber at top of slide.
Photos:  Yes.
Wet:     No
Int:     good
Found:   1992 Predator/Melb. Clan


Name:    Tank Stream. 700m long.
Descrip: At last, finally got into the bloody thing. The MSWB used to
         run tours in it, up to a year or two ago, but stopped due to
         the friendly Confined Spaces Act. Catch, we found out AFTER
         they stopped.
         NB. Anything with a "Do not enter - Confined Space" sign will be
         good!
Feat:    Multiple changes, in both directions from access manhole. Lots
         of colonial stonework, including arches, eggs, rooms, etc,
         mixed with some contemporary rectangular concrete sections.
         Not a very big drain overall and definatly not the huge beast
         that people think it is, but big on mystique. Height of
         sections, from downstream end: 5'6 arch, 5'8 twin rcp, room, 5'10
         balloon, 5'0 arch, 5'10 hallway, 6'0 arch, 5'0 balloon, 5'0 rcp,
         4'0 balloon. The upstream balloon seems to go on forever,
         but reaches a room eventually, with a second room 10m up
         from it. This room hold sewage valve gear and two windows into a
         sewer.
Loc:     [Sydway 26 J16]
         You know, THE Tank Stream. Right down the middle of the CBD.
         Some under Pitt St. Near Sydney Cove, but veering off towards
         George St as it approaches the GPO.
Acc:     All accesses found are either in roads, or immovable hatches in
         footpaths. All accesses have "TS" in yellow paint, and at least
         one segment painted yellow. The markings are mostly very faint.
         Manholes are all round type. Best access is via manhole in the
         quietest street,
         ie:- Corner of Hamilton St and Curtin Place, next to Australia
         Square bldg, six segment pizza is a bit to the SE of the centre
         of the T intersection. You will need some way of stopping cars
         from dropping wheels into the open manhole while you're down
         there. We used a panel of hoarding ply off the adjacent
         building site. Official looking barricades would make getting
         out again less risky though. Beware! On the wall opposite (base
         of Aust Square) is a plaque about the Tank Stream, next to a
         hole in the wall with steps down to a door. This is where the
         official tours of the TS used to enter, and there is a security
         camera watching the door. Do not go down the steps. Also, there
         was no discernible air movement, and quite a bit of nasty
         bubbling from the silt at downstream end. Air seemed OK then,
         but may not always be.
         Another Entrance exists as a six seg pizza in Angel Place, one
         block south. This leads to a 4ft egg and from there you go
         downstream. The outlet is very low and even at low tide is only
         half a foot from water level.
Exit:    Back the same way. All other manholes are in the middle of busy
         roads.
Int:     Very Good
Phot:    Yes.
Found:   1994 Mullet/Diode/Predator


Name:    Tavern. 150m long
Descrip: Short drain under block of flats in St Leonards.
Feat:    Huge room with churnblocks in 10 ft slide
Acc:     In Talus St Reserve, beneath Apartments, near Tennis Courts, St
         Leonards. Sydways: 035 D15
Photo:   Yes.
Exit:    Tunnel ends with partially destroyed litter trap.
Int:     Good
Found:   1997 Siologen


Name:    Three Pits. 1km long.
Descrip: Long drain, 6' dual parallel rectangular sections. Near
         basin end, there are windows between the two sections. Here also
         are three side tunnels that lead to the '3 pits', which are
         lifting pump shafts to raise water from the basin . See also
         'The Basin'.
Loc:     [Sydway 74 L17]
Acc:     Down channel from "Predator's", ie off Sydney Steel Rd. Also
         Sth of embankment of rail line between Sydenham & Marrickville
         at Fraser Park. This canal goes to Cooks river next to Tempe
         station.
Wet:     No.
Int:     Average
Found:   1991 Predator


Name:    Tin Whistle. 250m long.
Descrip: Drain.
Feat:    Twin 7ft high entrance that splits into three 5'8 rounds that
         are lined with 6 mm thick steel.
Loc:     Rooty Hill. Sydways:229 C16
Acc:     Beneath overpass, next to council depot, ne of North Pde, next
         to rail line. Near Train station.
Wet:     Shin deep at bottom end(found during rainy weekend).
Int:     Average
Found:   1998 Siologen


Name:    Toxic Swamp. 500m long.
Descrip: 7ft rcp, shrinks to 6ft, smells of aftershave.
Feat:    Empties into a big smelly turd infested spraycrete swamp.
Loc:     Greystanes. Sydways: 251 N16
Acc:     Base of M2 enbankment, between Carolyn & Yvonne Sts, north of
         Old Prospect Rd.
Exit:    None.
Wet:     Ankle at entrance.
Int:     Average
Found:   1999 Siologen


Name:    Transgrinder. 1.3km long.
Other:   Bennelong Outfall/Drain
Descrip: An ancient relic recently modified. Used to be the old
         Bennelong sewer, many years ago.
Feat:    Old 6'6 brick balloon, 7'conc arch, 7'rough cut s.stone (for
         diversion around carpark), 7'0 conc rec, 7'0 smooth cut s.stone
         varying and swopping often, finishing with 300m of 4ft concrete
         rectangle to the harbour outlet. Big on atmosphere.
Loc:     The Young St entrance manhole is in Map 24 K-15. (Sydways)
Acc:     Round manhole (8 seg, weighs a tonne) in the eastern footpath
         of Young St, roughly opposite House Lane, and adjacent to a large
         tree. This entrance is also sadly under the gaze of a security
         camera and from all accounts completely moronic Security
Photos:  Yes.
Exit:    Outlet (Sydways:024 M12)is under the Opera House apron at the north
         end to the east. Need to swim or boat, executing the latter between
         passes by Jetcats (swell would capsise the average dinghy)
         Emergency exit is dry overflow, 2ft diameter, long, enters harbour.
Int:     Excellent
Care:    If swimming, watch for waves created by watercraft.
         This drain is sometimes turd infested
Found:   1995 Mullet


Name:    Trashcan. 800m long.
Descrip: Rcp, ranging from 5ft-4ft
Feat:    Big Room 500m up, with a huge overflow diversion tank
         (20ft^,15ft<>) and two very weird side tunnels(One is flooded
         to waist, but may lead to another tank). Also, the drain is
         diverted by a 4ft high ramped wall. Drain dead ends at an
         impassable 12ft waterfall.
Loc:     Ryde. Sydways: 255 E14
Acc:     Down slope, in shrubland, opp Argle Ave, on Princes St.
Exit:    Grille at end of extra filthy rcp on left beyond diversion wall
Int:     Average
Eek:     Supreme scum and filth in tank
Found:   1998 Siologen


Name:    Treacherous.
Other:   The Coogee Outfall Sewer Relief Tunnel.
Descrip: Rarly active Sewer overflow tunnel.
Feat:    Emerges as a 6'0 brick balloon at the base of a 40m
         high cliff. Has huge overflow windows from sewer. Very old.
Loc:     Coogee.Sydways:78 N19
Acc:     At LOW tide only, walk north from Coogee beach, around
         to rocks. Tunnel is in rock face 250m round base of sea
         cliffs. Can be seen from top of cliffs but looks smaller
         than it really is.
Exit:    Not fully explored, doubtful though.
Care:    May suddenly discharge a raging torrent of untreated sewage,
         if your unlucky. Do not do at hi tide, huge waves crash into
         the cliffs and the tunnel, always do at the lowest tide.
Wet:     ankle.
Int:     Good
Found:   1999 Siologen


Name:    Triad. 500m long.
Descrip: Three parallel 6'H by 8'W drains, that go under Australian Pulp
         and Paper Mill's Botany Bay plant. Grills looking up into
         plant.
Feat:    Hidden entrance, old dam at exit
Loc:     [Sydway 337 R1]
Acc:     Enter canal under northern end of Bumborah Point Rd, follow
         East. Drain entrance is in Northern side of canal just before
         abandoned rail bridge. Entrance is 5' high, increases
         immediately.
Photos:  Yes.
Exit:    Ends in wasteland behind plant. Probably still inside plant
         grounds.
Wet:     Knee at entrance.
Int:     Average
Found:   1992 Diode


Name:    Trioxides Bent Spoon.
Descrip: Small drain, with pillars and an unusual grille.
Feat:    Its 3ft max.
Loc:     Concord.  274 R08
Acc:     Grille in carpark, Concord Rsl, cnr Nullawarra Ave + Nirranda St.
Wet:     No
Exit:    None, unless you want to stoop all the way to the tidal harbour
         entrance.
Tip:     Dont bother doing the whole drain, its only the area near the
         grille that is worthwhile
Int:     Boring
Found:   1998 Trioxide


Name:    The Twonkin.
Descrip: 6ft rec that becomes a right "twonk" of a 5ft tonkin.
Feat:    10ft high room 50m in with a big vertical grille up near its
         ceiling.
Loc:     Ryde. Sydways:255 E14
Acc:     20m ne along Princes St from Trashcan, in ne cnr of bushland
Exit:    If you bother going this far, get out via grille on Buffalo Rd.
Int:     Boring
Found:   1998 Siologen


Name:    Unilever. 600m long.
Descrip: Freshly dug drain under old Unilever Soap Factory
         grounds. 6ft
Feat:    Brand new drain with shiny neon yellow stepirons, many grilles.
History: Used to Be the Beattie St drain, built last century, supposedly
         a brick arch, demolished along with the Unilever soap factory,
         replaced with rcps(the boys at Meritons idea of imaginative.)
Loc:     Balmain. Sydways: 067 Q15
Acc:     New rectangular grilles in redeveloped site, Robert St.
Wet:     Tidal, but only for first 20m
Int:     Average
Found:   1996 Siologen


Name:    Vault Drain. 900m long.
Descrip: Interesting drain running under Cooper Park, Woollahra
Feat:    Huge overflow valve-door in side branch, near downstream end
         and at the end of a 4ft side pipe at the end of the left split.
         Access manholes can be seen from above downstream entrance to
         operate valve. Twin square tunnels that stay parallel, then
         split with arch shaped windows between tunnels. A few eels, the
         occasional duck.
Loc:     Double Bay Sydways: 298 H04
Acc:     Enter Canal at south end of Kiaora St go upstream. Upstream
         drain on same canal as Havyatts & Clogged Clam
Exit:    Take left hand split in drain to emerge in park near tennis
         courts.
Wet:     Mostly Dry.
Int:     Good
Todo:    Open valves and see what comes out?.... SEWER!!!
Now:     2000: Vaults have been sealed!
Found:   1997 Ogre/Mr India


Name:    Vertigo
Other:   Trumper Park Drain (original Melb. Name)
Descrip: Old Drain under Trumper Park, Edgecliff.
Feat:    Varying shapes and sizes. Some old round redbrick sections that
         have been eroded away, leaving a scalloped look to the floor.
         Many calcite formations. Drain constantly curves upwards,
         setting your sense of balance off.5'6ft
Loc:     Edgecliff. Sydways: 298 B02
Acc:     Enter canal from West side of Glenmore Rd, opp Trumper park.
         Head upstream. Downstream of this is Rushcutters Bay Drain and
         Ogre's Hovel.
Exit:    Various manholes exist but none have been tested.
Wet:     1cm - 2cm
Int:     Boring
Found:   1989 Melb Clan


Name:    Wasteland. 600m long.
Descrip: The most fucked up drain on this earth...  wear head protection.
Feat:    Collapsed roof sections, uneven spraycrete, misaligned drain
         sections, silt blocked sections, rotten roof beams, a split
         with windows, and an 8ft arch section. Also, a 6'2ft ovi
         branch.
Loc:     Mascot. 317 D6
Acc:     South of Rail Crossing on unnamed road that joins  Botany rd
         and General Holmes Dr.
Int:     Good
Wet;     Knee in most places
Exit:    Rectangular manhole, in Botany Ln, take care for cars and be
         gentle as the manhole is falling apart. Otherwise, 6 seg pizza
         into Botany Park far upstream.
Found:   1996 Predator


Name:    Watermark. 900m long.
Descrip: Long 8ft Rcp, eventually splits to 2x5ft'ers.
Feat:    Very high watermark on walls suggest that the drain was submerged
         for a good period.
Loc:     Wetherill Park. Sydways: 270 N10
Acc:     Northern side of Victoria St next to the RTA station near Wetherill
         St.
Exit:    None.
Int:     Average
Wet:     No
Found:   1997 Diode


Name:    Watership Down. 550m long.
Descrip: Drain that runs under the Metropolitain Colliery.
Feat:    Arch entrance, slide, 8ft steel rcp, narrow twin hallway.
         Squillions of bats.
Loc:     Helensburgh. Woll Gregorys: 01 E04
Acc:     Walk down driveway for Colliery Rd
         into valley where you will see mine tailings and buildings,
         walk to western corner up against valley wall, follow traintracks
         to a waterfall which empties into drain.
Exit:    Into deep valley.
Care:    Avoid being caught by miners/security. Do at night or on public
         Holiday.
Wet:     No.
Int:     Good
Found:   1999 Siologen


Name:    Waverton Drain. 50m long.
Descrip: Drain under Waverton Football Oval.
Feat:    A litter trap in a room. Dtrt's shorter bro.
Acc:     In sea wall.  Sydways: 45 E05
Exit:    grille
Wet:     Like Dtrt, tidal, but only knee deep at max tide.
Int:     Boring. Only 50m long
Found:   1997 ???


Name:    White bay drain. 450m long.
Descrip: Storm water drain, 6' entrance, reducing to 4'. (8' wide all
         along.)
Loc:     [Sydway 54 P17] Rozelle
Int:     Average
Acc:     Robert St. Through gap between cyclone fence and NE end of
         hoardings on SW side of street. (At bend in street.) Walk back
         (S) along rail lines towards power station.
Exit:    Turns back into open channel on SW side of Robert St, then
         returns to closed form (5' height), which reduces to 3' pipe.
Wet:     Dry throughout at low tide, shin at hi tide.
Found:   1992 Predator


Name:    Whites Creek. 1.3km long.
Descrip: Decent drain, 6'3-7ft, gets lower. One 10' section (underneath
         Collins St) with pipes across.
Loc:     [Sydway 64 K3]
Acc:     Canal just Nth of Booth St.
Wet:     Ankle
Int:     Good
Exit:    Trimar Manhole, Grille on Parramatta Rd, if you can get that
         far without dieing.
Found:   1991 Melb Clan


Name:    Windowville. 800m long.
Descrip: Large 3 sectioned drain.
Feat:    200m of bifurcated 8ft rec, 5m open canal, then 300m of 12ft high
         rec with a fenced off window running up near the roof along most
         of its length, with a 7ft rcp to the left, brand new, 300m long
         finishes in the Hall of Windows.
Loc:     Merrylands.(272,K04)
Acc:     On Neil St, near where it starts to rise up to cross the rail lines
         behind Mill Warehouse, 100m east of the cnr of Neil and Pitt Sts,
         on the south side.
Exit:    Exits 50m downstream of CXIV, side tunnel may have grilles(was
         under construction when found).
Int:     Good
Found:   1998 Siologen


Name:    Wired. 400m long.
Descrip: Single 'covered canal' style drain. 7'H.
Feat:    7 ft covered canal that used to be filled to the limit with
         hundreds of Cables and wires, these are still there but are
         encased in piping, Groovy metal roof though
Loc:     [Sydway 74 M16]
Acc:     Through hole in wire fence at East side of kink in Sydney Steel
         Rd. Take LH entrance. RH is Predators.
Exit:    Ends
Wet:     No
Int:     Average
Now:     Wires are either being removed or rewired, Jan 1998.
Found:   1991 Predator


Name:    Woodville Rd.
Descrip: Two rectangular 5' high drains. Don't do jack shite for me.
Feat:    House built on slab over canal just down from entrance.
         Entrance under Woodville Rd overbridge.
Loc:     [Sydway 272 M6] Merrylands.
Acc:     Granville Park, Woodville Rd, or Louis St (#118)
Exit:    Ends on other side of Granville Park
Todo:    Follow to Guildford Park.
Int:     Boring
Found:   1993 Diode


Name:    Wormhole.
Descrip: Drain, alternating open/covered channel, closed viaduct,
         branches, rooms.
Feat:    Viaduct across huge building excavation (tunnel through space,
         hence the name). 10'H x 10'W. Rooms at branches.
Loc:     [Sydway 313 L1]  Bankstown city centre to Salt Pan Ck.
Acc:     Cnr Raymond St & East Terrace, or gap in fence off car park
         next to Bankstown station and North Terrace. Plenty of other
         places too.
Wet:     No.
Pred says: This was the site where the Southern Region office of the
         ATO was going to be built. It was in Paul Keating's electorate
         and he decreed that it be moved to Hurstville. Prick.
         We now have no way of packing the tunnel with 40 or so
         tonnes of explosives and sending the good old Australian
         Taxation Offices to the moon. Can you imagine what
         a vote winner that would have been?
Int:     Good
Found:   1992 Diode


Name:    Yodas Den. 1.7km long.
Descrip: Good drain, 6-7ft rcp, with 8ft rectangles, and a 9' h x 4' w
         corridor, massive CDS unit.
Feat:    40ft high room, slide, 5ft downstream extension.
Loc:     Coogee Sydways: 298 K19
Acc:     Main entrance is under the Bowling Club, on dolphin St, the
         extension is 50m downstream of this.
Exit:    Main tunnel exits via grille up right hand split, extension
         ends on Coogee Beach.
Wet:     Ankle all the way.
Int:     Very Good
Found:   1998 Yoda


Name:    Your Taxes. 800m long.
Other:   Your Taxes at Work (full name)
Descrip: Big fuckin tunnel.
Feat:    Huge junction gpt, 3 vertical grilles, 14ft rec tunnel, large
         room with big roof grille, sloping 9ft tunnel, junction, huge
         waterfall, more 9ft arch tunnel. Then the hugest most impressive
         drain entrance in NSW!
Loc:     Wombarra (On the Illawarra rail line south of Sydney.)
Acc:     1. Big room with Big roof Grille: At the north end of Pit Rd, over
          fence walk 100m thru floodplain to big grilles, may need bolties
          and will need a big shifting spanner. Wollongong Greg. 02H13
         2. Outlet: From the bottom of Monash Ave (east end), go down stairs
          next to showers and kiosk, walk 200m north along beach, drain is
          up on top of rock crop. Wollongong Greg: 02 K13
Wet:     Entrance at downstream may be full of water, or ankle
         deep...depends.
Int:     As said by Bill And Ted: EXCELLENT!
Found:   1999 Diode & Predator


****************************************************************************
* SYDNEY STRUCTURES ***********************************************_stru****
****************************************************************************

Name:    Alexandria Brickworks
Descrip: Old Heritage listed brick kilns.
Feat:    Circular kiln corridors, small tunnels that lead to the chimney,
         big hall.
Loc:     Alexandria Sydways:074 R15
Acc:     Either thru holes in various gates, or by climbing up to hole in
         largest of buildings between the chimney and the actual building.
Care:    Old and decrepit.
Int:     Very Good
Found:   1998 Ogre/Dirge


Name:    BEST (Big Empty Space with Thieves)
Descrip: Abandonned Boral factory complex, with clock tower, silos
         (sort of), offices, more broken glass than you ever saw before.
         Vast warehouse at rear of lot, that has burnout tyre circles
         on the floor.... way over in one corner.
         While it lasts it might make a good Clan meeting place- has
         lots of onsite parking, and even a vast supply of firewood.
Feat:    Climbing the tower. 'Adjust' the Time on remaining clock face.
Care:    Harmless.
Cond:    Has been TOTALLY gutted and trashed.
Loc:     25 (? opposite #26) Ferndell St, Sth Granville.
         UBD 62/o9,  Sydways 292/Q1
Acc:     Front gate is open. Walk right in. Security is highly unlikely.
         Or drive in and park in the huge warehouse at rear.
Exit:    Front gate again, or via bush at rear fence.
Wet:     The roof leaks like a sieve, so if its night and raining the
         offices are a dark, dripping warren of sodden carpets,
         sagging false ceilings and broken glass. ie Perfect.
Int:     The tower is good.
Found:   16/7/2000   Dirge, Ogre, Diode (during total lunar eclipse.)
Logged:  Diode 19/7/2000
Todo:    Go back in time and handle the 'Stalking the Thieves'
         incident with some semblence of intelligence, stealth,
         strategy and coordination. Fucked that right up, didn't we?
         Also: Enter the locked 'Danger - no entry' building.


Name:    Bristol Arms Hotel
Descrip: Old abandoned, boarded up pub.
Feat:    Ruin, basement, squatters bedroom.
Care:    Staircase and upper floors were set on fire and are now charred
         wrecks. Ascend with EXTREME care(this was why it is so boarded up).
Loc:     Cnr Pyrmont & Harris Sts, Ultimo. 027 E01
Acc:     Around the rear there is a plank of wood leaning against the
         wall, use this and the bars on the adjacent window to climb
         through the open toilet window.
Int:     Good. Hey, its a pub!
Found:   1998 Ogre


Name:    Cape Don
Other:   The Ghost Ship
Descrip: Unseaworthy ship that seems to be disused but has squatters(?)
         living on it.
Feat:    Huge engine and tool rooms, five levels of sleeping quarters
         toilets, rec rooms and kitchens. Rear gangway and rooftop access.
Loc:     Waverton
Acc:     From the west half of Balls Head Drive, climb over fence near
         where drive splits, onto the roof of Halloween Halls. Walk to
         north end and down staircase, climb fence, walk along waterfront
         to gangway.
Exit:    Same way as in.
Care:    Seems to have people living on it, but whether theyre owners,
         caretakers or squatters is unknown.
Int:     Good
Found:   2000 Various


Name:    Caltex Refinery
Descrip: Decent refinery/storage area, still used for refuelling
         ferries.
Feat:    Many storage areas, refining quarters, tanks, room full of Gas
         Station pumps, signs.
Loc:     Birchgrove. 045 B10
Acc:     Over gate at bottom of Yeend St, near disused wharf.
Care:    Still has patrolling security, don't do it if yer paranoid.
Int:     Good
Future:  Walker (Wanker) Industries is trying to buy it so that it can
         flatten it for residential development.
Found:   1997 Siologen


Name:    Camperdown Velodrome.
Descrip: Disused Velodrome.
Feat:    Nice place to hangout, or ride a bike. Invokes a very 1970s feel
         Complete with lights, old ads, bleachers, rusty old commentary
         platform. Has caused controversy, cos the local council
         wont let the famous Dulich Hill Cycle club use it due to
         supposed soil contamination.
Loc:     Camperdown 064 M07
Acc:     From the cnr of Salisbury and Cardigan Lanes walk up Salisbury
         Lane to hole in fence.
Exit:    Ditto.
Care:    Dont stack on steep bits.
Int:     Average.
Found:   2000 Siologen


Name:    Centennial Park Reservoir.
Descrip: Reservoir.
Feat:    50'(?) high, almost the size of Sydney cricket ground. Lots of
         columns. Full of water.
Loc:     [Sydway 67 D7]. Shown as blue oval on map, but is underground.
Acc:     Park in Wallis St, or through Centennial park.
Hist:    Built long ago, using special bricks and cement imported from
         England.
Int:     Very Good
Wet:     req. diving gear.
Pred says: Yeah... first get SCUBA qualified and then avoid the outlet pipe.
Todo:    Wait 30 years till they next empty it for cleaning (last in
         1992), then do it.
Found:   1992 Predator


Name:    Cockatoo Island (ex) Dockyard.
Descrip: Major shipbuilding facility, gone to ruin and sold off.
         (Typical)
Feat:    Three tunnels through hill from one side of island to other.
         Two watertowers. (Tall one has locked door at base, other has
         ladder). Numerous cranes (some steam powered!) Good climbs.Two
         drydocks. Old abandoned federation style mansions. Fully intact
         Power Station. Tennis courts. A Helipad, Old prison(ruin).
         Lots and lots of assorted buildings.
Care:    Security, shift changeovers by ferry once every 12 hours, also
         used for skirmish by the military.
Hist:    Lots.
Cond:    Gutted by government command. Shitheads.
Loc:     [Sydway 44 L9]
Acc:     Several secluded little boat ramps, inlets, etc.
         Ideally launch from disused wharf next to Dawn Fraser ocean Pool,
         near Elkington Park
Exit:    Swim.
Phot:    Y.
Wet:     Boat (Island)
Int:     Excellent
Now:     Sitting there drawing protest from yuppies in Birchgrove about
         how much it ruins their view of Hunters Hill
Todo:    Go with ropes and climbing gear and explore 19th century granary
         cut into stone of top of hill. Access via trapdoor in stone near
         edge of cut cliff above bldg at northern side of island. Near
         houses on hill.
Pred Says: There was footage taken of this in Channel Seven's Underground
         Sydney. There is a tunnel through the middle of the island, cut
         from sandstone and timbered. The grain silos are still accessible
         and have lots of junk at the bottom but otherwise are boring.
Found:   1999 Maddog
Diode says: "Hey! I went to the shut-down auction, in about 1993(?) and
         explored it then. And have photos. Also, from a Navy source-
         There is an underground power station and pump room at the south
         end of the dry dock. There is one security guard on island.
         Also, the redevelopment plans are trashed due to irredeemable
         soil contamination. Navy name for the place is 'Codock'.


Name:    CSR Distillery
Descrip: Very HARDCORE Industrial site.
Feat:    Originally: 5 storey distilling quarters, containing all
         original machinery, 12 large, empty storage tanks, 5 extra
         large storage tanks (all axessable), a big  old fashioned
         boilerhouse, many storage areas, administration block, nasty
         security.
Acc:     Over any of the fences, on a public holiday.
Loc:     Jones St Pyrmont. 055 B17
Care:    Do not get caught, as they'll try to detain you until the
         Police arrive, they accept no excuses as to why you are there,
         and only down on your hands and knees grovelling, will do any
         good.
Hist:    Been around since late 1920's, now owned by Lend Lease/Civil &
         Civic.
Cond:    Only partly there at present, will soon be completely gone,
         still worth it though.
Int:     Now: Good, Originally: Excellent.
Photo:   Loads
Todo:    Defy nasty foreman named Dominic
Found:   1996 Siologen


Name:    Defiance Silos and Mill.
Descrip: Large Milling factory.
Feat:    Tall Silos, extensive Mill, lotsa conveyors, warehouses, rooftops,
         very confusing to get around, old admins, many staircases.
Loc:     North Strathfeild.
Acc:     Under gate on Hamilton St East.
Exit:    Various.
Care:    Keep an eye out for security.
Cond:    Recently disused, bad stench of rotten grain in Silos.
Photo:   Yeup.
Int:     Good
Found:   2000 Hatchet


Name:    Dirge's Hole
Descrip: Old underground room once used as a substation.
Feat:    Musty and decrepit, full of cobwebs, flaky paint on walls. Getting
         out could pose a task.
Loc:     Cbd 025 H16
Acc:     In grassy area next to multi storey carpark, SW of Kent St and
         Margaret St intersection. Two large grilles. Lift out section of
         western grille, beware, its fuckin heavy, dont drop it. Climb down
         and youll be looking into room from a ledge. Use rope, or climbing
         abilities to get in.
Exit:    Back up the way you came.
Wet:     No.
Int:     Good
Found:   1999 Dirge


Name:    The Dryer
Descrip: The old service corridors to the gone White Bay Coal loader.
Feat:    2 storeys below ground, with a further 3 levels lower(flooded),
         walls are covered in insulation & meshing, and are acoustically
         dead(ie, no echo or reverb whatsoever), max hight is 15ft.
Loc:     White Bay, Rozelle. 054 Q16
Acc:     Over fence at north end of hoardings on Robert St(same as for
         White Bay Power Stn/Drain. head towards second fence and what
         appears to be a railway platform. Look for a set of railings at
         the top of a covered staircase. Lift metal covering, descend.
Care:    Unsure as to whether the insulation is asbestos. flood water
         full of chemicals, metal covering weighs a tonne, three people
         necessary to open.
Wet:     Water level varies.
Int:     Very Good
Todo:    Hire Siphon Pump and remove water to reveal another 4levels, and
         access to the 12ft tunnel (flooded) 100m north.
Found:   1998 Siologen


Name:    Dulwich Hill Silos
Descrip: Big set of Silos next to a Flour Mill
Feat:    Big Flour Mill, 9 storeys high, very good nick. 14 Storey
         tall silos, with weird ladder system to top. Flooded basement,
         good veiw from rooftop.
Loc:     Dulwich Hill. 295 R11
Acc:     From Davis St climb over wall at edge of bridge, walk down to
         behind delivery shed. Open sliding wooden door. Once inside,
         squeeze through gap next to enclosed conveyor, go up steps to
         door and into bottom of Silos. To Get into flour Mill, try roller
         door in yard, on Davis St side.
Care:    Security are said to patrol.
Future:  Slated to be converted into Sydneys first Silo Apartments.
Int:     Very Good
Found:   2000 Assasin


Name:    Dunheved Railway Station.
Descrip: Disused goods line station.
Feat:    Old platform, over rail bridge, small hut, lotsa rusty rails.
Loc:     Dunheved 227 F06 (Its marked in Sydways Directories)
Acc:     Onto bridge from Christie St, opp Fire Stn.
Int:     Average.
Todo:    Locals said that theres meant to be a disused train
         tunnel out here somewhere.
Found:   1999 Trioxide/Siologen


Name:    Gear Hole
Descrip: Below ground room with big motors, gears, etc to drive conveyer
         belt. The belt carried clay across a bridge to a brickworks
         (now disused).
Loc:     [Sydway 272 J5] Merrylands.
Acc:     Park in "Kid's Museum" car park off Walpole St. Gap in wire
         fence behind sewage? pumping station at bottom of park. Metal
         steps down through weeds at conveyor belt truck tip bldg.
Int:     Average
Found:   1993 Diode


Name:    Ghost Town.
Loc:     Down hill at Cedar Street to track or from start of track at
         Moons Ave.
Photos:  None.
Int:     Average
Care:    Down near the riverside you come close to other peoples little
         cottages as well as on the way out you have to travel on
         private  property to get back on the main road. Also the travel
         down the hill is steep and hazardous.
Descrip: Old Buildings in the Georges River state recreation area.
         From Cedar St at the point where the houses stop and steep bushy
         land starts. Go down this hill till you come across a track. This
         land is still on the side of the hill. If you get to the bottom
         then you missed it. Following this track to your left for about 5
         minutes brings you into the Ghost Town (as we named it). You come
         across a building up on your left. Made out of corrugated iron and
         sanddstone blocks for retaining walls and base. In the building
         the floor is not very stable and may well collapse into the
         basement. There are fascinating stonework fire places. At the back
         of this place there is a second fireplace with the remnants of an
         old piano near by. Continuing on, going between 2 building joined
         here is your second lot of houses. The one on your right has an
         attic, see what's up there??? You will notice old mattresses on
         the ground. Continuing further round there is another tin shed on
         your left. Climb upto this. It has a wire cage inside it (for
         keeping hooks, etc??)
         Along the ground you will notice that the place uses a lot of the
         sandstone for retaining walls, building blocks and fences.
         Further along you will find the remains of another building which
         has had its walls pulled down. Just before this used to be another
         building that has been completely demolished.
         You will walk across its floor plan. Now heres an interesting part
         Just further along there seems to be a little house.
         On closer inspection you will find that it is. It has been
         abandoned and is in excellent condition.
         Scarcely vanadlised. There is a kitchen with cupboards, sinks,
         cooker, a bathroom with hand basin, toilet and bath.
         It has some bedrooms with cupboards as well as stylish new type
         aluminium windows on the front part overlooking the the river.
         This window is an addon to the house. Notice the medieval type
         drawings on the swinging windows in the front room?
         This was originally the front wall of the house.
         Also notice the light fittings on this wall.
         There are power points and light bulbs still in light fittings.
         Check out the fuse box outside. There are power lines still
         running to the house. Power it up???
         Also look for the painting in the front room with the top right
         corner missing out of it. You will find a staircase
         leading from the front door which is the way out.
         The boatshed and houses further along are in use.
         You will see a street light from down near the house, don't go
         towards it. Keep running parallel to the cliff till you exit
         between two houses.
         Going up between the two houses you will notice the drive way.
         Run up this  and turn left when you reach the street.You are
         now back in Cedar St. Only about 100m or so  from where
         you entered by going down the hill.
Found:   ???????


Name:    Glad Wrap Factory
Descrip: Large Factory complex.
Feat:    Huge plushly laid out admin, relativly new, nicely carpeted,
         with various I.T. rooms, kitchens, offices, access to roof.
         Main building is massive, with more admin, large process plant.
         extensive warehouse space. Good view of Olympics from roof.
Loc:     Rhodes
Acc:     Climb around or over makeshift fence at main entrance,
         on Marquet St. Various doors left open.
Exit:    Same way as you came in.
Wet:     Nope
Int:     Very Good
Found:   2001 Lotsa people.


Name:    Gladstone Park Reservoir
Other:   Balmain Reservoir, The 'Voir
Descrip: Empty reservoir, 4 storeys high, 80m long, divided by large wall
         with walkway on top. Also, adjacent pump cavity.
Feat:    Size, extensivly penetrating root system, sandstone clad walls
         etc.
Loc:     Balmain 054 Q13
Acc:     Ram weight against the front doors of the large hut opp. Balmain
         Hospital, on Booth St. Once in if hatch is shut, lift it, otherwise
         just descend. Is Padlocked.
Care:    Rusted and corroded.
Wet:     South half is dry, north shin deep(go boating in an inflatable)
Int:     Excellent
Future:  May possibly get turned into a carpark, cos of whinging fuckwit
         yuppy residents of the Balmain Peninsula.... Yer all fucked!
Found:   1998 Kel/Myan


Name:    Glass ball.
Descrip: Hollow ball on top of steeple, 2m dia. inside. Small room under
         sphere with door to outside. Lean out and look down. Coloured
         lights and switch in sphere -in use occaisionally
Loc:     Sydney Tech College, Railway Square. [Sydway 65 G5].
Acc:     Front door, old stairs in rear of bldg, top floor mens toilets,
         exit to roof via cubicle window.Replace panes of toilet window
         on leaving!
Now:     Still possible?
Eek!:    Climb steel ladder on OUTSIDE of sphere and stand on top, Gunga
         Din.
Extra:   Lights are now in use at night.
Found:   1992 Diode


Name:    Halloween Halls.
Descrip: Disused coal loader.
Feat:    Huge sandstone tunnels, old hoists, coal storage rooms,
         wharf walkways and under peir workshops.
Loc:     Waverton. 045 D07
Acc:     Thru hole in western fence where the loop in Balls Head Dr
         starts. This leads to roof of loader. From here, head to the
         stairs at the north end.
Wet:     One or two of ther tunnels may be 1-3inch deep.
Todo:    Check out the disused boats berthed nearby.
Int:     Average.


Name:    Hatchets Hole
Descrip: A Cavity of unknown use or history underneath Hospital grounds,
         7ft high.
Feat:    Hollow walls, its also constructed like a storm drain and has
         various unusual archetectural features.
Loc:     Domain. 026 L17
Acc:     Round concrete manhole on rear grounds of Sydney
         Hospital, near Domain Park.
Exit:    Other Manhole, or the way you came
Wet:     Hollows in walls are ankle.
Int:     Good
Found:   1998 Hatchet


Name:    Minda Juvinile Justice Centre.
Descrip: Disused detention Centre.
Feat:    Cells, playing feilds, workshops, solitary cells.
         Admin, swimming pool, library, classrooms, rooftops.
Loc:     Regentville
Acc:     Opp. cnr of Cutcliffe Ave and Joseph St. Walk up to Admin
         building, open sliding door, then jump over cooker into
         canteen.
Exit:    Various
Int:     Good.
Wet:     No
Found:   2000 Trioxide


Name:    The Mushroom.
Other:   Petersham Water Tower
Descrip: Huge mushroom shaped water tower with accompanying underground
         reservoir.
Feat:    Submarine style interior, amazing 360 deg view, old brickwork.
Loc:     Petersham. 063 F10
Acc:     Unmissable, on New Canterbury Rd , jump gate and ascend to base of
         the tower, lift out removable grille from above door, climb thru
         and open door from inside.
         Reservoir is entered via open hatch at rear of tower.
Exit:    None.
Care:    Reservoirs are 4m deep in stagnant water, walkways are rusted.
Wet:     If you fall in.
Int:     Excellent
Now:     This is now pretty much unaccessable without an oxy.
Found:   1999 Trioxide/Siologen/Hatchet


Name:    North Rocks Dam
Other:   North Rocks Water Retarding Basin
Status:  Accessible
Descrip: Huge 30m high, 50m wide concrete dam.
Feat:    Archway through bottom allowing pedestrian access (when not
         raining)
         Spillway, Semi-circular turblance "twister". *Excellent*
         abseil (done by Hatchet, Stray and Trioxide, Maddog, Toto and
         Siologen).
Loc:     North Rocks. 232 N17
Acc:     100m down gravel track from end of Loyalty Road, North Rocks.
Exit:    No "entrance" to substructure. No real exit.
Wet:     Yeah, when Noah has been called upon.
Int:     Good
Found:   1999 Trioxide


Name:    N.S.O.O.S Vent Stack
Other:   Northern Sydney Ocean Outfall Sewer vent
Descrip: 20m high, 5m diameter brick vent stack.
           * 292ft (according to Water Board Journal) shaft underneath to
         N.S.O.O.S (Manly) sewer.
           * According to Sydney Water Board 1985 UBD, this shaft does
         not connect to N.S.O.O.S, rather it connects to the "Albert
         Street" sewer which then connects to N.S.O.O.S.  Do we have the
         wrong shaft?
Feat:    Deep shaft
Care:    Do not fall into sewer - you will end up in Manly.
Loc:     North Sydney. 036 L20 Corner of Falcon Street and Waringah freeway
         (near off-ramp of the freeway).
Acc:     Through door at bottom of vent stack. Door is locked.
Exit:    Back through door.
Int:     ?
Todo:    Enter
Found:   1999 Trioxide


Name:    Pier 2/3
Descrip: Disused finger wharf.
Feat:    Great view of harbour/bridge, two storeys, balcony, old
         staircase
Loc:     Rocks. 024 J12
Acc:     Thru hole in fence near most easterly gate on Hickson Rd.
         opp Pottinger Rd.
Exit:    Same.
Int:     Good
Found:   1998 Ogre/Dirge


Name:    NSW Uni of Tech tower bldg foundations.
Descrip: Space between original excavation hole, and walls of basement.
         Also has door to complex of service spaces inside basement
         levels.
Loc:     Thomas St, Ultimo. [Sydway 65 F5].
Acc:     Down vehicle access ramp from street to LOWER level (there are
         two).
         Far corner of level has wire fence, climb over. Chimney down
         cleft between wall and native rock. At bottom, walk along cleft
         to door. There were some lights on here at the time, but no
         sign of use.
Care:    Beware getting lost in service spaces.
Now:     Depends on getting/finding roller door open.
Int:     Good
Found:   1992 Diode


Name:    Soylent Green
Other:   West Ryde Pumping Station Basement
Descrip: The Basement of West Ryde Pumping Station, accessed via the
         overflow pipe that runs from the basement into the side tunnel
         off Charity Ck Drain.
Feat:    Big basement full of pump gear, transformers and pipes, small pipe
         used for access, possible to maybe get into the main pump hall.
Loc:     West Ryde.
Acc:     Go into Charity Ck Drain and head up western rcp thats halfway thru
         main drain(not the rcp off the chamber) walk up this till you reach
         the older rcp section, from there, look for a 3ft side pipe on the
         left, with a room and a hatch in it. Lift hatch and follow pipe for
         about 250m.
         You'll reach a hinged vertical grille, held on with finger tight
         bolts.
         Remove these, lift grille and you're in.
Exit:    Back the way you came unless you want to rush a fire escape.
Wet:     Yes, the 3ft pipe has water cascading in thru its roof in two
         sections.
Care:    Try not to get busted in Pump house as its manned 24hrs. When
         lifting grille try to avoid shifting water float thats dangling
         next to the grille
Int:     Good
Found:   2001 Diode

Name:    Underground Garage and tunnels.
Other:   Paddington Reservoir, Paddo Garage.
Descrip: Underground vault.
Feat:    Vaulted brick and earth roof, supported by massive wood
         columns.
         Small rooms leading off, that lead to OLD tunnels (water
         entry/exit?). Rotted remains of stairs and seats in tunnels
         indicate they were used as bomb shelters in WW2. Also are blast
         baffles in tunnels. Ends in rubble fill with 3' dia steel pipe
         through, looks like original tunnel was broken into by later
         building, and steel pipe may connect to continuation of
         original tunnel. Pipe is half filled with dirt for about 7',
         then looks clear again. Could be cleared out easily. (Hah!)
         Also has newer looking side tunnel at end.
         Pipe found to dead end after 20 meters. Don't go in, you can't
         turn.
Care:    Garage roof totally fucking unstable. DO NOT GO UNDER IT!
Hist:    An early Sydney underground water reservoir, was converted
         into a petrol and service station long ago. In 89/90? during
         heavy rain, part of the roof collapsed, and the site was
         abandoned.
Loc:     [Syd 66 R5]. Cnr Oxford St and Oatley Rd, opposite Paddington
         town hall.
Acc:     Squeeze between eastern end of hoardings and cyclone fence,
         back along hoardings, climb down protruding steel reinforcing
         rods at entry ramp.
         29/4/92: above is now barbed wire, alt acc over hoardings
         behind trees. Only trouble is, this means walking over TOP of
         roof. (One at a time!) Entry to tunnel is through partly
         obstructed door leading to room under garage entry ramp. Climb
         over pile of ancient junk at back of room.
Int:     Good
Todo:    Take shovel, remove rubble from 3' dia steel pipe continuing on
         from end of tunnel, explore. Will probably get bigger again,
         may join Rushcutters Bay drains, or be more of old water supply
         tunnel.
Todo:    Break through bricked-up hole from 1st room of tunnel to other
         half of reservoir.
Phot:    Garage only, not tunnel. 16/5/92. Predator has photos in
         tunnel.
Now:     OK at 16/5/92.
Wet:     Ankle or dry, depends on recent rain.
Eek!:    In garage, look at old, rotten wood columns, look up at roof,
         walk softly.
Predator says... the other half of the reservoir is dry so the wall is
         ok to break through.
Found:   1991 Predator/Diode


Name:    Wangi Wangi Power Station.
Other:   Former Newcastle Power Station.
Descrip: Massive disused structure, 2 times the size of White Bay.
Feat:    Totally gutted, enormous Boiler house, 18 stories high.
         Equally large Turbine Hall, huge long conveyor tunnel under
         rooftop. 200m long roof, with lift rooms.
         Climbable chimnies, 3 of, at least 70m high, with nice easy
         teired ladder system  and circular platform at top.
         Access to roofs of Boiler house, Turbine Hall, Admin and Dust
         Extractor.
Loc:     Wangi Wangi, near Lake Maquarie.
Acc:     Wangi Point Rd, follow fence around to back of Power Station
         land, Either cut hole in fence or squeeze under. Walk towards
         canal, either find bridge, or wade thru it (its only ankle deep),
         climb or cut fence on other side of canal.
         Walk around to other (eastern) side of building to base of third
         (most southern) chimney. Remove bricks from under fence and squeeze
         under.
Exit:    Back out the way you came, then over what ever fence you feel
         comfortable climbing.
Care:    Security do inspect site. Terry the Guard Dog lives inside the Main
         Power station, however he appears to be shit scared of anyone he
         sees in there. He cant get onto floors above ground level.
         Be careful of loose floor plates on balcony at top of chimney.
         Admin building is well alarmed with PIR's and reed switches.
Cond:    Totally gutted but completely free of graff or civilian vandalism.
         In a worse state than White Bay but not as bad as Balmain was.
Photos:  Yes.
Int:     Excellent
Found:   2001 Oriface



Name:    Warragamba Dam
Descrip: Mega massive dam, honeycombed with service passages, huge
         spaces, enormous pipes, vertical shafts, a hydroelectric power
         station, etc.
         There are also access tunnels that follow the pipelines though
         the mountains, but haven't been in these yet.
Loc:     [Sydway 283 G8]
Maps:    Recommended: 1:25000: Penrith, Warragamba.
         Orthophoto: Warragamba U5545-6.
         Also have some plans of dam internal tunnels, though these
         don't seem to correspond well with observed tunnels.
Care:    Round hatch in closing gap gallery has switch, hatch was open
         21/3/93. Power station has IR sensor at top of stairwell from
         surface. This sets off a standard alarm immediately, then about
         30 sec later, a totally earth-shattering klaxon that is
         probably heard for miles. Oops!
Phot:    Some. Would have liked to have time to get more.
Acc:     None, if the water board had their way. However, it is
         possible, but you'll have to work it out for yourself.
Wet:     Water everywhere, but avoidable.
Int:     Excellent
Todo:    Lots.
Pred:    There is some plan to jack this up another 27m.
Found:   7/3/93 Preliminary scout: Diode, as tourist.
         21/3/93 Diode & Predator.



Name:    Waterloo Incinerator
Other:   Alexandria Incinerator
Descrip: Disused garbage and refuse incinerator.
Feat:    Climbable chimney, huge machinery, control rooms, rooftop
         views, admin blocks, tool rooms, walkways, chambers.
         The Pit: a 10 storey deep, 70m long garbage pit, complete with
         cranes, a fully operational water cannon and big xenon lights.
Loc:     Waterloo 075 H14
Acc:     Thru main gates, near Green Square Station on Botany Rd. Walk round
         to chimney. Check door to the rear of the side of the building. If
         its open just go in. If not, climb onto small water tank near
         chimney, walk along pipes to walkway. Go up two flights to door
         next to big window. Go thru this.
Exit:    Same as above.
Care:    This building appears to be fully alarmed. Security nevertheless is
         lax. Be on the look out for seckers and try to avoid passive I.R.s.
         someone has said that the alarm dial up doesnt work.
Wet:     At the bottom of the pit.
Todo:    Climb all the way up the chimney.
Int:     Excellent
Found:   2000 Siologen


Name:    West Ryde Power Station
Descrip: Small power house that once supplied power to the West Ryde
         Pumping Station, since gutted and left to disuse.
Feat:    Big hall with extensive tunnel system running under it,
         5 chimnies, roof access, huge rail shed in rooftop hall,
         above massive coal bunker.
Loc:     West ryde, attached to the West Ryde pumping station.
Acc:     On the west side of the building there is a boarded up door
         the most righthand board is loose. Pry open. You can get onto
         the land either by jumping a fence or following the rail lines
         along till you find the hole in the fence.
Exit:    Back the way you came or if you dare, you can exit over the
         dodgy rail viaduct that goes up to the roof level.
Care:    Floor above coal bunkers is hella dodgy. Watch out for water
         board workers in Pump Station. Rail viaduct is rotted out,
         walk on concrete sections only.
Int:     Very Good
Found:   2001 Diode


Name:    White Bay Power Station.
Descrip: Disused coal fired power station.
Feat:    Huge machinery, etc. View from roof, flyover coal loading
         conveyer bridge, underground coal bunker, cable tunnel.
Loc:     [Sydway 65 N17]
Acc:     Robert St. Through gap between fence and NE end of hoardings,
         back (S) along rail tracks and coal dump area. Through small
         hole in cyclone fence, over fence into coal rail truck
         Shed, over fence at bottom of stairs, climb stairs to
         loft,  cross to main bldg via enclosed flying conveyor bridge
         then climb fence at top of stairs, that leads down to coal
         hopper. If you are lucky.
Care:    All asbestos and operating constituents removed, danger is now
         getting caught. 2 hourly compound patrols. Also, the floor of
         the conveyor bridge has been honeycombed by white ants. Very
         unsafe. Walk up actual conveyor belt, its stronger.
Hist:    Built in 1912, secondry boilerhouse demolished in late 60's
         (this is why a whole section of the turbine hall is sheared
         off.)Shut down in 1986.
Int:     Very Good
Now:     In use for tv commercials until they decide what to do.
         Very well secured.
Eek!:    Climb chimneys.
Update:  The Power Station has seen a big overhaul,
         including the clearing of the internal infrastructure of the
         Boiler house, removal of a lot of the machinery,  and finally,
         the complete sealing of the whole building.
Future:  So far I  have heard people say that it could be: A Mall,
         Offices, Apartments, a Hotel and even a Minimum Security
         prison.
Found:   1989 Diode


Name:    Wooloomooloo Reservoir
Descrip: Massive twin reservoir, empty, previously used to store oil.
Feat:    8.5m high, 50m square, filled with condensation, stinks of
         crude oil, littered with old pipes, walls are black.
Loc:     Wooloomooloo. 056 N17
Acc:     Near to Eastern Distributor tunnel, next to enclosed
         substation. Elevated park between Lincoln Crescent & Art
         Gallery Rd. Entrances are two 8 seg pizzas, painted yellow, in
         middle of elevated park.
Wet:     2 inches (puddles)
Care:    Water in 1 inch section is a mix of detergent and oil. Oil smell
         is very strong.
Int:     Excellent
Eek:     Rediculously heavy manhole covers.
Future:  Newspaper report said it is to be turned into a Wine Cellar (?)
Found:   1998 Siologen


Name:    World Square
Descrip: Massive semi built, never completed office tower.
Feat:    Great views from various levels, maze of corridors, lift shafts,
         staircases, mezzanines, foundations, nooks and crannies.
Care:    Lower floors patrolled by seckers with dogs. Scaffold to the top is
         pretty sketchy but the view is worth it.
Loc:     CBD 028 J01 George St, Goulburn St, Pitt St.
Acc:     1. Down driveway opp. Eros Theatre on Goulburn St, take left hand
          drive either thru or around rollerdoor, then turn left thru gate,
          go past sheds to first fire escape, head up three flights then out
          door.
         2. Jump fence next to fire doors on George St, just south of coke
          machines, open doors from inside.
         3. Head down alleyway, opp Redeye Records on Pitt St, jump fence
         off to right.
Exit:    Out thru any open fire escapes, or doors.
Int:     Excellent
Hist:    Replaced the Anthony hordern Building at the end of the 80s. was
         built to present state before dodgy design and materials, combined
         with lack of funds ended its continued construction. Has sat as it
         is now since 1992.
         Future uncertain.
Found:   2000 Hatchet


****************************************************************************
* SYDNEY TUNNELS AND CAVES ***************************************_tunn*****
****************************************************************************

Name:    Blowjob 2000. 500m long.
Other:   B.J., B.J.2K
Descrip: Termination siding/tunnel.
Feat:    300m long tunnel that dead ends at a wall. Is used for trains that
         terminate service at Martin Place Station. Covered in peices and
         graff, very clean and new looking, rarly used. If you stand at the
         alcove in the south tunnel, the passing trains blast hurricane
         strength winds at you as they go by, then exert the same in 
reverse,
         sucking air out of the siding into the live tunnel.
Loc:     Woolloomooloo 026 M18
Acc:     Climb fence from John Young Cres to the south of rail viaduct.
         Run up left hand tunnel for 30m on the right side and you will
         find an alcove with staircase leading to the tunnel.
Exit:    Back the way you came. Or if its late enough you can take the long
         route and follow the whole System to Redfern.
Care:    Dont get hit by any trains, hold on to bracebars when standing in
         alcove.
         Do at night. Watch for service terminated trains in actual siding.
Int:     Excellent!
Photos:  Yup.
Found:   1999 Trioxide


Name:    Bondi Ghost Tunnels
Other:   Eastern Suburbs Line Part 2
Descrip: Disused tunnels beyond Bondi Station (the last on the line) as well
         as a single Blow Job 2000 style tunnel, and the in use tunnels
         leading to Bondi itself.
Feat:    1.1km worth of in use tunnel from Walleroy Ave to Bondi Station,
         beyond the station the tunnels split off into three tunnels, the
         left most goes 500m before becoming disused for the last 200m. The
         middle one is used its entire length and is similar to B.J 2k. The
         right most is disused and mostly unlit for 700m. Both Disused
         tunnels end with 20m of unlined rock with huge drill marks and
         minituare lakes.
Loc:     Woolahra.
Acc:     30m north of the intersection of Wallaroy Rd and Weeroona Ave jump
         fence on west side of Weeroona Ave. Walk along track to train 
lines.
         Head up tunnels going south. The tunnels to the north are the more
         boring Edgecliff section.
Care:    Always watch out for trains, DONT explore before 1:15am weeknights,
         or 2am weekends. Getting past the station involves a painful stoop
         under the station. Keep quiet. Also, you'll have ta avoid the train
         driver whose train gets parked in the left most tunnel.
Wet:     Lakes at end, also drainage drop pipe.
Cond:    Heapsa homie and train driver graff.
Exit:    Back the way you came.
Photos:  Yup.
Int:     Excellent!
Found:   2000 Siologen


Name:    Brooklyn Rail Tunnel.
Descrip: Short disused train tunnel.
Feat:    Concrete floor, old bits of storage junk, Gates at either end.
Loc:     Brooklyn. 137 12Q
Acc:     If gate is open, follow Dangar Rd all the way to where the used
         line goes thru a tunnel, the disused tunnel is to the right of
         this. If gate is closed. you may have to walk it.
         Tunnels entrance is fenced off, but when last seen, the fence was
         in disrepair.
Exit:    If other end isnt padlocked.
Wet:     Dry.
Int:     Boring.


Name:    Bushranger's Cave
Descrip: Sandstone cleft cave. Surprisingly convoluted due to multiple
         intersecting fractures.
Loc:     Turn-off to south from great Western Highway going up to
         Katoomba. Signs to Cave and Pulpit Rock. Walking track to cave
         not signposted, but if you are on a steep zigzag track down
         hillside, you're on it.
Acc:     To non-obvious cave extension: climb up rock at right about 6M
         in from entrance.
Exit:    None
Phot:    N
Wet:     Dry
Int:     Boring


Name:    Cahill Cable Tunnel. 120m long.
Descrip: A short cable tunnel under the Cahill Expressway where it goes
         over Macquarie St. Height: 6'.
Feat:    Lots of cables and pipes.
Loc:     [Sydway 26 L16]
Acc:     Hinged grill secured with one bolt, in grassed area between
         Macquarie St and embankment up to Cahill Expressway.
Int:     Average
Extra:   Tunnel DOES just go under hill!
Found:   Predator/Diode


Name:    Central Ghost Platform.
Other:   Platform 26
Descrip: Disused underground rail platform at Central Station.
Feat:    No rails, tunnels that go nowhere, large pit with ladder. This
         place was used for document storage by SRA. It is now totally
         empty and camera free. The platform is semi-lit so no torch is
         needed, unless you want to walk up the short tunnels.
Loc:     Central Station. 027 H04
Acc:     Go to concourse, walk down stairs towards Eastern Subs Platform
         halfway down staircase you'll see two doors. Both are locked.
         Use coathanger or packing tape, slide wire down behind anti
         "credit card" plate and behind latch. Pulling from both top
         and bottom, yank wire outwards on a diagonal. Try until latch
         pops. Also leads to The Lost Mine.
Exit:    Back the way you came
Int:     Very Good
Care:    Look out for workmen.
Todo:    Hold a party in there.
Found:   1997 Ogre


Name:    City Circle. 4.8km long.
Descrip: The "Used" city train tunnels, from Central to Museum to St James
         to Circular Quay to Wynyard to Town Hall back to Central. Can only
         be explored between 2:30 and 4:45am on Weekends, or from 1:30am on
         weeknights
Feat:    Long lit tunnels, of varying shapes: Twin arches, Single arches,
         Cut and Cover rectangle, switch gear, junk, the knowledge that
         walking thru a vey important part of Sydneys Infrastructure.
Loc:     Circular Quay, The Rocks, Surrey Hills depending on which section
         you choose.
Acc:     For Circular Quay to St James: take ladder next to the staircase
         that leads up to Cahill Expressway on Maquarie st side, down to air
         con. Climb down off air con and head up tunnel. 024 L14
         For Circular Quay to Wynyard: Go down Fire escape stairs, next to
         The Rocks end of the Cahill Expressway, off Harrington St. At
         the bottom of the stairs, climb wall into compound. 024 J14
         For The Harbour Bridge to Wynyard: Walk up to the Harbour Bridge
         cycleway, from Watson Rd, jump fence from Cycleway onto tracks.
         023 H13.
Exit:    Either back the way you came, or if your willing to take the risk
         of being caught, go thru the various stations until you get to
         Central.
Wet:     No.
Photos:  Yep
Care:    Always keep an eye on the LED banks, in case a train does pass thru
         If one does, head directly to the nearest alcove, DON'T lie down in
         ditch between tracks. Never do tunnels outside above mentioned
         times. Don't risk becoming track lubricant! Getting past stations
         will be difficult as, unlike the E.S.L. thes City Circle platforms
         have blue metal floors and no platform overhangs.
Int:     Very Good
Todo:    Tunnels at Central Station end.
Found:   1999 Hatchet


Name:    Domain Tunnel. 450m long.
Descrip: Well known but mysterious cable tunnel that runs from the
         Domain park to the substation near Woolloomooloo Bay.
Feat:    Working lights, rock blasted tunnel, very live, 400m long
         8-12ft tall, runs 400m then splits to two 7ft concrete tunnels
         that end in vertical grilles that look into the substation.
Loc:     Domain, Cbd. 27 M17
Acc:     Unless they replace the door: Go to 5ft high green box on the
         northern side of the Domain, next to the Eastern Distributor.
         Louvres on door are fucked, reach thru louvres and thru finger
         contortion, you should be able to turn the latch on the other side.
Exit:    Into Substation, which is also worth an explore.
Care:    Major FEDERAL offence. Do not get caught!
Wet:     Puddles.
Photos:  Yeup.
Int:     Excellent
Found:   1999 Trioxide


Name:    Eastern Suburbs Line.
Descrip: 7km long train tunnel system running thru Redfern, Central,
         Town Hall and Martin Pl Stations, with extension to Edgecliff.
Feat:    Double tunnel, Arch, Rectangle and Cut'n Cover, many big sump
         rooms, stations, termination siding off Central, the Pillaz
         section off Town Hall, various rooms and shafts, access to
         Blow Job 2000.
Loc:     Erskineville to Wooloomooloo.
Acc:     From Railway Pde jump fence next to old Pedestrian bridge,
         opp. Clara St. Walk past Sra Building into tunnels.
Exit:    Either back the way you came or out thru to Wooloomooloo.
Care:    Do between 1:15 and 4am wknights or 2am and 4am wkends.
         Watch for trains. When passing stations, stoop under platforms
         as stations are manned 24hrs. Keep quiet under platforms.
Photos:  Yes.
Int:     Very Good.
Found:   2000 Siologen/Fishie/Oriface.


Name:    Eye of The Needle.
Descrip: In the language of materialists: an old Cable Tunnel.
         An interconnection of gaps in reality. The 'needle' is
         not the entry gate to Heaven, though that be narrow
         enough to exclude the stout. Verily, it is the _next_
         trial that is the true test of worthiness.
         He who taketh the middle path, neither the higher or
         the lower, shall succeed. Providing he shall have fasted
         beforehand, and leadeth into the gap with one arm raised
         unto the challenge before him, and the other held below.
         Incantations of the holy grunting shall bring favour from
         the Gods of Tight Places, as will the wearing of abstemious
         amounts of clothing.
         Once into the fabled land, ye shall find a black veil upon
         a beautious virgin wall, which would be well annointed with
         the secret symbols and tags of the pilgrims, should any
         among them have had the fucking wisdom to bring the fucking
         spray cans. Replace the veil over the texts, that the harsh
         attentions of authorities may be confounded, while yet other
         travellers on their quests shall uncover the teachings if
         they seek wisely. Those without the knack of parting the
         waters had better keep a dry pair of shoes and socks back at
         the chariot.
Feat:    The sheer surreality. See ye the big red pipes? If not,
         then thy spirit is not yet worthy, and must meditate on
         the true meaning of 'look up', once past the third gate.
Loc:     Parallels disused rail tunnel under Railway Square, 027 G05
Acc:     Climb over wall and head along embankment, opp Little Regent St.
         This takes you to the old disused railline that runs under Railway
         Square (see Ultimo Rail Tunnel). To the left of the tunnel is a
         gated arch tunnel. A bit of bellying and squeezing should see you
         under it. Otherwise (don't mess with padlock) go in the back way.
         50m on is the "Eye". Take the centre of the three holes, and
         squeeze your way in.
         Back way: Walk thru the railway tunnel, and as soon as you get
         out of it, turn left and go into a fenced off compound with a
         stair case. Behind the stair case is a matal hatch in the ground.
         Lifting this will see you into the knee-deep-in-water other end.
         027 G04
Wet:     Knee at north end.
Int:     Very Good.
Care:    Not for well fed people.
         Basement rooms likely to have alarms?
         The entrance to paradise must remain concealed, lest it be
         sealed forever by the forces of darkness. Replace the holy
         leaf litter and random trash when leaving.
Todo:    Explore basement via possibly alarmed doors.
Found:   Diode & Predator 1998


Name:    Glen Davis mines.
Descrip: Abandoned shale mines and partly demolished shale oil
         extraction plant.
Care:    Unstable shafts.
Cond:    Very entropic.
Loc:     Glen Davis valley via Lithgow, Capertee.
Acc:     Park somewhere other than visitors car park, ignore tour fees,
         walk up valley past ruins, mines either side of valley, newer
         on right, very old hard to find ones on left. For newer one,
         need rope to get down ventilation shaft to horizontal tunnel.
         Older ones are crawl entrances due to earth fill at entrances.
         Also more old mines further up valleys?
Now:     Heard the property was sold to overseas investor since?
Todo:    Return with more time and better lights, maps.
Eek!:    Tunnels continue past loose rockfalls- how far?
Found    Diode, mid 80's


Name:    Labyrinth. 300m long.
Descrip: SRA Cable tunnel that leads into the basement of an SRA building.
Feat:    Lotsa big cables, nooks and crannies, as well as access to
         building. Big room with cables on floor in pit. 6ft with ramps
         that take it to 9ft.
Loc:     Strathfeild 274 P18
Acc:     In grass patch, next to rail lines, near gates, on crook of sth
         side of Cooper St (near Chapman st). In middle of patch there is
         a mushroom shaped vent, lift this off(2 people) and lower yourself
         in.
Exit:    Preferabley back the way you came, of via door on far side of
         pit room.
Care:    ONLY do at night, keep and eye out for SRA personel. Replace vent.
Int:     Very Good
Found:   1999 Trioxide


Name:    Lavender bay rail tunnel. 500m long.
Descrip: Half a K long, on disused branch of north shore line.
Loc:     [Sydway 45 H6]
Acc:     Along rail line from Luna Park.
Int:     Average
Found:   1992 Diode


Name:    Lithgow mine.
Descrip: Short part of old mine accessible.
Feat:    FA.
Loc:     ?
Acc:     Forgot exact road details. Road out of Lithgow towards old
         Newnes rail tunnel (Glow-worm tunnel) goes up hill (windy). As
         turning a RH curve, clearing on left, with shell of large old
         building. Bricked up mine entrance above, but small brick
         building below it has hole through back wall behind bushes. It
         was a blower room, and tunnel from it enters mine, though main
         shaft is plugged further in.
Now:     ?
Todo:    There must be lots of old mines around this area. Where are
         they?


Name:    Long Nose Pt to Greenwich Tunnel. 250m long.
Descrip: Extremely famous tunnel, built in 1914, to carry power from
         White Bay to North Sydney. Narrowest part of harbour is between
         Manns Pt, Greenwich and Long Nose Pt, Birchgrove. Is 80% flooded.
Feat:    Greenwich side: Fucking big tunnel (12ft), staircase descending
         5 storeys on 30 deg grade, blasted outta rock. Roof collapsing,
         walls turned to powder, roots hanging, smashed cable trails,
         tonnes of rusted corro-iron, rails running down stairway.
         All up, only 200m long but VERY GOOD!
         Long Nose Pt Side: Flooded 10m in, in basement of a residential
         house.
Loc:     Greewich to Birchgrove.
Acc:     Greenwich: Using Rope or Abseil tape, lift and drag big gatic
         manhole out of slab. You may need crowbars as well. Slab is on
         southern side of Manns Pt Park, near commemerative plaque,
         off Prospect St.
         To replace, pull and lever in the opp. direction. sydways 045 A06
         Long Nose Pt: Went door knocking along Louisa rd asking house
         owners if they had a tunnel on their property. Found right
         house. Thru door in kitchen down into concrete basement.
         Like a drain, mozzies, condensation, with a huge 12ft high
         rock blasted tunnel in far wall. Very impressive.
Exit:    None. Flooded on both sides as soon as it reaches water level.
Care:    If you try to remove manhole:
         Dont fully remove it, mind your fingers, be aware of sharp
         reo, and tinned lead near roof. The Gatic weights A LOT!!!
         In Tunnel: Take care while climbing corro piles, stay away
         from northern wall, dont touch cable trails, they are all
         ready to collapse, dont fall in water at lower end.
         DO NOT ATTEMPT TO SCUBA DIVE THIS TUNNEL, an attempt
         was made in 1992, but abandoned cos the submerged tunnel is
         way to dodgy.
Wet:     Slippery, and of course flooded.
Hist:    Built between 1914 and 1924, flooded to roof within 1 year of
         completion. House built on Long Nose end in 1992, Greenich end
         sealed with concrete (Gatic wasnt enough!?) in 1990. Graffiti
         dates to 1924.
Int:     Excellent
Photos:  Naturally.
Eek!:    All of it.
Diff:    Getting into it.
Found:   1999 Siologen/Trioxide/Maddog/Cold/Seven/Riccardo


Name:    The Lost Mine.
Descrip: Uneven cavity that runs along the top of the Redfern bound
         Eastern suburbs Train tunnel, between the outside of the tunnel,
         and the rock around it.
Feat:    Changes in size, from standing height to belly crawling, old
         timbers braced between tunnel lining and rock.
         Goes quite a way.
Loc:     At the end of  the left hand south bound tunnel that runs off the
         Central Ghost Platform.
Acc:     Use door on staircase to get to Ghost Platform.
         (see report for Central Ghost Platform).
Wet:     Very, as you have to crawl thru sections that are at times shin
         deep.
Int:     Good.... Hardcore.
Photos:  Yup.
Care:    Dodgy roof.
Found:   Diode 1999


Name:    MacArthurs Bunker
Descrip: Legendary, undiscovered WWII command bunker.
         It probably _does_ exist, but where?
         Many rumours about location. Most say 'off the St James tunnel
         system.' Others 'Off the Sydney loop rail tunnels.'
         But our exploration of these show no signs of it. There is one
         cememted up 'possible doorway' in the Nth end St James tunnel.
(s/// says: IT IS UNDER THE OLD GRACE BROS BUILDING THAT IS
         NOW A HOTEL ON THE CNR OF King and York STS, CBD..
ToDo:    Find the bloody thing!


Name:    Martin Place Aircon. 300m long.
Descrip: Aircon ducting from Martin Place railway station.  Underground.
Feat:    Lots.
Care:    Night exploration only.  Size of explorer may preclude complete
         entry.
Hist:    None
Cond:    Dirty, dirty, dirty.  Dark, dark, dark.
Loc:     [Sydway 26 L17]
Acc:     Park in Hospital Road at the rear of Sydney Hospital.  Look for
         two concrete blocks about 15ft high with air vents in them.
         Walk to northern side of northern block.  There, there should
         be a small emergency flap at waist height.  Use caution here as
         there is a Hospital Security gatebox in the carpark across
         Hospital Road. Pry this open with your hands and brute
         strength or use crowbar. Climb in and down.
         Once down the ladder look for door on southern wall.  Enter
         into room. On your left is the maintenance pit for the
         ducting. On eastern side there are rungs going down to an
         access hatch in the duct.  Hatch is about 1ft X 2ft.  Squeeze
         through the hole and feel for rungs below your feet.  You are
         now in the ducting.
         Climb down to the bottom and walk along the tunnel for about 150
         metres. At the end there is a blue door.  This is the cleaners
         room, from there onto the platform.  Ducting narrows and
         continues over platform. Becomes 5'8 and continues about 100m to
         a HUGE slide that goes up about 10m, then becomes vertical.
Exit:    Back up along tunnel and up duct.  Once out of duct and
         reunited with your more well-fed friends proceed up the red
         steel stairs. You are now in the southern block just inside the
         grey double doors on the western side that lead into the Domain
         and back to your car(if you parked in the right spot.)
Wet:     0 Bone dry.
Int:     Excellent
Now:     Most definitely.
Todo:    Dress up as a ghost and scare shit out of the cleaner.
         Extension south to St James, possible help locating Macarthur's
         bunker??
Eek:     Water cooling tower..Leigonella Bacteria !?!?!?!
Diff:    Getting into ducting.
Found:   1996 The Lads


Name     Mini-Dipper. 40m long.
Descrip: Pipe tunnel, only about 40m long. Access at ends raised above
         ground level. 7' high inside, Two large HP gas pipes & lots of
         electric & telco cables. No prior graffiti.
Loc:     Syd 274 F14 Under bridge where Homebush Bay Drive crosses
         P'matta Rd.
Acc:     Metal gate at E end is not locked.
Int:     Good
Found:   1994 Diode


Name:    Newnes chasm.
Descrip: Interesting sandstone chasm, deep, narrow and twisty, can't see
         sky from bottom. Known to locals as "The Fridge".
Cond:    Bush.
Loc:     Near Newnes glow-worm tunnels. Found by chance while wandering
         about.
Acc:     Sorry, can't describe how to find spot, have to go there again
         to measure k's from some landmark of spot to leave road.
Exit:    Chasm emerges at base of cliff overlooking valley (but which
         one?).
Phot:    Y.
Wet:     Don't go in if looks like rain.
Todo:    Find it again and mark on map, stupid. It should be listed as a
         natural feature on some topographical maps.
Extra:   This is a three way split. At one of the thinner splits is a
         cave with lots of pretty glow-worms! (Ogre) Diode: No, thats not
         the same one.


Name:    Northside Conveyor Tunnel. 2.1km long.
Descrip: Big tunnel useed to convey spoil from the Northside Storage
         Tunnel project at North Head, down to barges at Little Manly Cove.
Feat:    Conveyor Flyover, conveyor head cavity, 14ft rock bored tunnel
         with conveyor hanging from ceiling.
Cond:    Muddy, Muddy, Muddy, Muddy, Muddy.
Loc:     Manly 259 F10
Acc:     Bolt cut chain on gate into cavity near barge. Situed on eastern
         side of  Little Manly Pt Park. East end of Stuart St.
Exit:    Maybe if you get to to the other end of the tunnel.
Wet:     VERY muddy. After about 300m you're up to your waist in mud.
         Appears to be a mix of concrete and bluestone. Heaps of
         condensation in the air.
Future:  May be backfilled or sealed off when Northside Tunnel is completed.
Int:     Average. Would be heaps better if you could walk thru it
         comfortably
Found:   2000 Siologen.


Name:    Placebo Room.
Descrip: Cavity inside a staircase, named so cos you think its does more
         for you than it really does
Feat:    20ft high, concrete inside, sandstone outside.
Loc:     Pyrmont 055 C16
Acc:     Staircase that goes from Jones Bay Rd up to Pyrmont Point park.
         Enter thru vent, which lifts off.
Int:     Boring
Found:   1998 Ogre


Name:    Redfern rail tunnel. 400m long.
Descrip: Rail tunnel (no rails, going down to Sth).
         Ends up just beyond Redfern stn, was once filled with rubble
         & water, is now clear.
Loc:     [Sydway 65 F7]
Acc:     Via Holden St off Eveleigh St. Over fence & across rails to
         just Nth of derelict signals control bldg in middle of tracks.
         Entrance is below old bldg.
Wet:     Ankle
Int:     Boring
Now:     North end seems to be backfilled.
Found:   1992 Predator/Diode


Name:    Saint Michaels Cave.
Descrip: Huge cave in sandstone sea cliffs.
Feat:    Space, and lots of it.
Loc:     [Sydway 68 H7]
Acc:     Park in lane off Watkins Rd, near cnr with North Avalon Rd.
         Walk down cliff track, then south along shore.
Exit:    None
Phot:    Y, Predator.
Wet:     No
Int:     1
Pred says: I think this is a Doleritic dyke or something. Go up it and
         eventually you meet a cement wall. Sounds like a bureaucracy.


Name:    St James Tunnel. (North Extension) 600m long.
Descrip: Length of disused tunnel (complete with rails and lights),
         followed by further unfinished section, with resident lake.
         Perhaps 0.6Km total.
Feat:    Walk down the middle of a lit, double line rail tunnel, without
         fear of trains (there are none, witness cables, etc left lying
         across tracks). Eventually reaching a rock wall, with a ladder up 
it.
         this leads to a short tunnel thru to a big shaft and further 
tunnel.
         Beyond this is the Lake. Crystal clear water in lake. Sandy beach 
on
         which to don your swimmers. ...mind the yabbies.
Loc:     [Sydway 26 L18]
Acc:     From Platform 2, run down the tracks.
         You are running the same way as the trains go. After about 50 
metres,
         it widens out where other tunnel joins from right. Wire gate also 
at
         your right leads back to centre tunnel off platforms. Ignore it.
         Go beyond it and you will find a litle crawl space that leads into
         St James
         Other way involves waiting until trains stop running,
         then walking up live tunnel from Circular Quay Station until you
         come across a gated off passage on the right side of the tunnel
         Climbing over this isnt easy, but can be done. This places you at
         the lake end.
Exit:    There is an exit from the south end of the lake section, into
         an active rail tunnel. In other words, none.
Int:     Excellent
Phot:    Yes.
Todo:    Picnic on the beach?
Found:   1992 Predator/Diode....Hatchet


Name:    St James tunnel. (South extension) 800m long.
Other:   Hyde Park Bomb Shelter
Descrip: Unused rail tunnel extension from St James Station. Converted
         to basic air raid shelter during WW2, by the addition of
         several blast barriers along its length. One barrier has been
         partially demolished with explosives at some time, for reasons
         unknown. Climbable.
         Legend has it that General Douglas Macarthur had his WW2
         command bunker somewhere in or off this tunnel. At one point
         on the western wall, there is what might be an old doorway,
         concreted up.
Feat:    Veils of tree roots from trees in Hyde Park above. Much
         graffiti at far end, dating back to construction of tunnel.
Care:    Exits to adjacent rail tunnel, which is in use.
Hist:    Why was it built? Rumour: was part of early plans for eastern
         suburbs line.
         From newspaper: Jan 92 - Three men arrested (trespassing) after
         lighting small fire in tunnel.
Loc:     [Sydway 26 L19]
Acc:     Stoop under station from North extension.
         Or run down tunnel the same dir. as trains from platform 1. You
         will reach a siding with a gate. if its locked climb over it.
ToDo:    Smash thru the concreted-up door?
Int:     Excellent
Found:   1992 Predator/Diode....Hatchet


Name:    Twin Pits
Descrip: Two impressive pits about 6 metres apart. Both are about 5
         metres square with heavy steel bar grills on top. One is 12
         metres deep with shear concrete walls and two 8' high tunnels
         off the bottom, as well as another 8' high tunnel with its
         floor about 4m above the bottom of the pit. The two tunnels
         from the bottom go to one blower room, while the 3rd tunnel
         goes to another blower room. Total of 8 rooms, 3 tunnels.
         The other pit has a metal roof about 7 meters down. This is
         probably a generator room between the two blower rooms.
         It's all to allow fresh air to be blown into the Cahill
         Expressway tunnel under the gardens. Not normally used.
Feat:    The depth, blower rooms.
Loc:     [Syd 26 L16]In the Royal Botanic Gardens, 3m inside the fence at
         the corner of Macquarie St and Bent St. Under some trees.
Acc:     On the deep pit, one of the grill sections is unbolted and can
         be moved by two people. Then you need a wire ladder or a rope
         and abseil/jumar gear.
Exit:    Out door at top of staircase in hub room.
Phot:    Y
Int:     Very Good
Note:    There are in fact six pits in total, in this area.
Found:   1993 Predator/Diode


Name:    Twin Pits II
Other:   Triplet Pits
Descrip: Another Air Con setup for the Cahill Tunnel.
Feat:    Slightly larger than twin pits, layout is totally different,
         Main pit is much larger, lights work, 11 rooms, 6 tunnels,
         3 pits.
Loc:     Botanical Gardens.
Acc:     On the s east cnr of Maquarie St and Conservetorium Rd.
         Most western pit, situed behind elevated Main pit, has
         removable grille. Climb onto first ledge, then second
         then onto roof halfway down pit. Use fire extinguisher
         pipe to climb off roof, walk out of room, turn left, go
         up stairs to open main exit from inside.
Exit:    Out door again.
Int:     Very Good
Found:   2001 Mr India/Siologen


Name:    (Old) Helensburgh to Otford Tunnels.
Descrip: Six old railway tunnels between Helensburgh and Stanwell Park.
         Also two longish water tunnels under rail line.
Hist:    See National Trust booklet 'Ghost train walk'. Old (direct)
         rail line abandoned due to 1 in 40 grade, new line winds around
         hills instead of going through.
Loc:     Between Helensburgh and Stanwell Park, south of Sydney.
Maps:    Map in Nat Trust booklet, UBD Wollongong street dir (11th Ed),
         Toppo 1:25000 Appin, Orthophoto contour 1:10000 Helensburgh-
         this is the one (with notes) I photocopied.
         Listed from North to south:
---------Old Cawley Tunnel: 400m long.
Cond:    In use as mushroom farm.
Loc:     Helensburgh North. Woll Greg: Approx 01 B01
Acc:     North end: blocked, access via high window with rope. Off
         Cawley rd.
         South end: Mushroom farm bldg & dog, in use.
         Turn left at end of Wilsons Ck Rd, only dirt rd. Follow for 200m.
Feat:    Lights, Mushrooms, Refrigeration.
Phot:    Of North end.
Int:     ?
---------Wilson's Creek Underpass
Loc:     Helensburgh North Woll Greg: 01 C01
Acc:     Off bridge of Wilson's Creek Road.
Feat:    Bent, due to new line going beside, but not parallel to, old
         line.
Phot:    Yes
Int:     Boring
---------Old Helensburgh Tunnel: 100m long
Cond:    Abandoned mushroom farm.
Acc:     Nth end: possible via break in barricade. Behind portable sheds
         at north west end of present Helensburgh station. Or climb up
         from west end of Wilson's Creek tunnel under line.
         South end: Thru gate in old hut off Tunnel Road. Woll Greg: 01 C02
Feat:    Short, old mushroom frames.
Phot:    Nth end, inside.
Int:     Good
---------Old Metropolitan Tunnel: 680m long
Cond:    Lower end dammed, used as water reservoir for Metropolitan
         Colliery.
Acc:     Nth end open, access via defacto garbage tip and weed jungle
         off Tunnel road, Helensburgh. Can walk into tunnel (muddy).
         Point at which water starts depends on current level. Canoe
         down tunnel till water reaches roof. Opp. Helensburch Tunn.
         South end: Dammed 20' up tunnel. Leaky pipes emerging. Total
         swamp.
         Take track south from near corner of Old Farm Rd and Parkes St,
         Helensburgh. At bottom of valley, follow creek back up around
         colliery coal stockpile.
Feat:    Fantastic echo while canoeing, due to wedge where water meets
         roof.
         Small tunnel above (behind facade) south entrance, with leaky
         pipe.
Phot:    Nth entrance, and canoeing
Int:     Very Good.
---------Camp Gully tunnel under line.
Cond:    ? Looks pretty long on map, haven't been down yet.
Acc:     Follow old line south from Old Metropolitan Tunnel South end.
         At gate on edge of colliery land (middle of embankment) go down
         to creek through lantana.
Int:     ?
---------Old Lilyvale No.1. 80m long.
---------Old Lilyvale No.2. 350m long.
Cond:    State rail access road thru tunnel.
Acc:     From mine tailings, follow old line to bridge. Here, go right
         and down to used line, follow this to used tunnel, then go right
         and up hill. To your left you will see Lilyvale No 2. Go to the
         right and youll come to Lilyvale No 1. Woll Greg: 01 F04
Feat:    Gates on #1, #2 is fairly uneventful
Phot:    No
Int:     Average
---------Old Otford tunnel. 1.6km long
Cond:    Abandoned mushroom farm, very decrepit, still sound. Walk thru:
         40min.
Acc:     Nth end: Between Station Rd and new rail line, Otford. Just
         North of public school. Path down between two houses, or walk
         from Otford stn.
         South end: Follow Chellow Dene Ave (Stanwell Park) north, at
         fork with sign "No through road" (arrows pointing left and
         right) take left fork. This is dirt road, becomes 4WD type
         01 L12
Feat:    Length, abandoned machinery, vent to surface at middle.
Phot:    Both ends, middle.
Int:     Very Good
Found:   1993 Diode


Name:    Sydney Tram Tunnels. 1.2km long.
Descrip: Mythical, yet blatantly obvious set of tunnels, running from
         the Harbour Bridge to Wynyard, where they are used for a Car
         Park.
Feat:    Two tunnels, 30ft high, one which arrives after 400m at an old
         gate, beyond which is the lit tunnels of the Wynyard Carpark.
         The other dead ends after 500m as the outlet for the Carpark
         A.C. Gale force winds meet you as you stand in front of the 6ft
         by 5ft vents.
Loc:     Bradfeild Hwy, Rocks 024 J13
Acc:     How did we not see these??? thats what you get for refusing to
         walk across the harbour Bridge, via the pedestrian walk, rather
         than the far more rebellious cycleway. Where the pedest. walk
         on the bridge ends on the Rocks side there is an alcove behind
         a fence, beneath the roadway, near the Pylon Lookout. Get over
         or thru fence, and pull up meshing covering tunnel, crawl
         under, adjacent tunnel is accessable via windows on the east
         side.
Care:    Don't enter live tunnels, which can be accessed thru holes in
         the western side, unless its past 2am at night.
         Workers don't seem to mind as long as you
         don't SMOKE! A.C. Tunnel is very dusty. Car exhaust et al.
         The first 50m of the left tunnel has been converted into a
         shooting range by Police. Only enter tunnels if this is not being
         ie: late at night.
Int:     Very good
Found:   1998 Ogre


Name:    University of New South Wales Service Tunnels.
Other:   UNSW Tunns; Daves Std
Descrip: Long tunnel with seven side tunnels, supplying power, gas, water
         etc to Unsw.
Feat:    Big tunnels, up to 12ft high, staircases, side tunnels, sloping
         tunnels, wall cavities, access to basements, shape and size 
changes.
Loc:     Kensington.
Acc:     From Main entrance to Unsw, opp. big bus stop on Anzac Pde
         near Day Ave, walk up main drive to Quadrangle. Go to Library,
         and near grassed area look for a downward staircase. At the bottom
         of this reach thru green door and undo latch, once in, go thru wall
         cavity. For More Accurate details talk to Clan Personell.


Name     What? 500m long.
Descrip: Pipe tunnel, near Mini-Dipper. Same type entrance gate, size,
         except is locked, has more pipes, and emits a TOTALLY deafening
         scream, as in high pressure gas through constriction. Length
         unknown.
         Cannot stand at entrance without fingers in ears.
         50m W of western end of Mini-Dipper. Heads under Western
         Freeway, into recently worked over Syd-2000 O-limp-ics site. A
         matching set of metal doors found there, but lying loose on
         ground, no sign of tunnel.
Loc:     [Sydway 274 F14]
Acc:     Need to break lock.
Care:    When investigating at other side of Fwy, in vast, barren
         bulldozed area, at night, no torch, no obvious observation
         points, a police van suddenly appeared on far horizon and came
         straight for me. They were OK, "just wanted to know what I was
         doing", accepted "just curious - exploring" and left (slowly,
         while I left too). There HAS to be some IR surveillance for the
         nearby Oh-lump-ic Vile-age.
Int:     Average
ToDo:    Scan several nearby light towers with telescope for IR cameras.
         There is another similar tunnel running under the M4 further along
         Parramatta Rd, 274C12.
Found:   1994 Diode


Name:    White Bay Cable Tunnel. 500m long.
Descrip: The Cable tunnel to beat all other cable tunnels. Partially
         flooded.
Feat:    Length about 400m, very old, two 9ft deep
         channels with rock blasted roof over both ie:  /---\ Changes to
         brick arch then lowers and submerges.          |_|_|
         Huge, with cables and old lights.
Loc:     Rozelle, in the grounds of White Bay Power Station. 276 N19
Acc:     From Bus Stop on Mullens St, near intersection with Victoria Rd
         jump fence and look for a small hut with a "Confined Space" sign.
         Enter, descend.
Exit:    Ends at shaft in Lilyfeild Train Yard. Hatch is openable, but
         tunnel is submerged
Wet:     From shin deep at start, gets progressivly deeper. By 200m its up
         to your neck. Go swimming or take a boat.
Care:    Its flooded, make sure you can swim. Mind for security in WBPS
         grounds. Water however, is clean and seems ok to swim in.
Int:     Excellent
Diff:    Really Flooded.
Found:   1998 Siologen/Trioxide/Hatchet


*************************************************************************
* SYDNEY BRIDGES *************************************************_brid**
*************************************************************************

Name:    Alford's Point.
Descrip: Bridge over Georges River, near Alford's Point. 333 H08
Feat:    Eleven huge rooms with portals between. ranging from 20 to 40m
         long.
Acc:     Abseil off Eastern side of Southern end of bridge to 3ft
         platform.
         Enter rooms, squeeze through opening to bridge tunnels. Gates
         may hinder access, remove locks etc.
Wet:     Not unless you hang a leak in the corner.
Int:     Good
Exit:    None, Northern end has been bricked up.
Found:   1996 Predator


Name:    Captain Cook's. 600m long.
Descrip: Bridge over mouth of Georges River, South of Sans Souci. 335 N19
Feat:    Over 130 rooms with lighting and power. approx 10ft cube each.
Acc:     On top of and thru hole in cage at northern abutment. Use 25mm
         box spanner to open door. Once inside, climb stone stairs to
         ladder.
         Climb ladder access rooms.
Wet:     Dry
Exit:    Southern side has more locks than North side, so no exit.
Int:     Good
Todo:    Live there!
Now:     Doors at both ends of bridge are now sealed with at least 2
         padlocks each. Suggest that both doors be thoroughly de-locked
         and opened before entering bridge.
Found:   1996 Predator


Name:    Como Rail. 400m long.
Descrip: New concrete box girder rail bridge, next to old disused steel
         frame rail bridge.
Feat:    Amazing echo in box girders, due to multiple resonant cavities.
Loc:     [Sydway 334 C15]
Acc:     Access road down to rail line off Yarran Rd. Walk along tracks.
         You need to get on top of a pylon, between the two concrete box
         girders. There are access holes in the girders here.
         This is only possible if the service gantry (which hangs under
         the bridge) is parked next to a pylon. It may also be removed
         entirely.
         The hollow space in the girders runs the entire length of the
         bridge, with semi-bulkheads at regular intervals.
Wet:     It is if you fall.
Care:    Use a mask, this place is likely to have histoplasmosis
         spores.(pidgeon shite)
Int:     Good
Found:   1992 Predator


Name:    Doppelganger(The). 75m long.
Descrip: Single span hollow concrete road bridge that takes the Pacific
         Hwy over the Sydney To Newcastle Hwy
Feat:    Amazing Doppelganger echo(will possess your soul), and a single
         abuttment.
Loc:     Wyong, 4km south on Pacific Hwy from the Gosford turn off from
         the Syd-Newcastle Hwy
Acc:     Door on East side, hacksaw needed.
Photos:  Yes
Int:     Good
Found:   1998 Mr India


Name:    Fig Tree Abutment
Descrip: Abutment of Bridge.
Feat:    Walkway at Girder level.
Loc:     Hunters Hill Sydways 276-B01.
Acc:     If unlocked, walk thru door in abuttment on south side, near
         Reiby St. If Padlocked, dont bother.
Exit:    None.
Int:     Boring
Found:   1998 Trioxide


Name:    Gladesville. 2km long.
Descrip: Biggest single span concrete arch bridge in Sth
         hemisphere/world?
Feat:    52 rooms, ranging from 12ft high to 40ft high.
Loc:     [Sydway 43 B5]
Acc:     From park under northern end. Over mesh fence at gate, or at
         side of arch. This puts you on top of the arch, can walk up to
         where bridge deck and arch meet. Here some 'delocked' metal
         hatches give access to a series of chambers, which start off
         about 6' high, but get progressively lower, till they end at
         the centre of the bridge at about 1' high.
         Also, at the base of the Nth & Sth arches, upper surface, there
         are metal hatches to the inside of the arch, which is BIG.
         These are padlocked. Try the Nth one first.
Wet:     No
Phot:    Yes, outside and inside.
Int:     Excellent
Todo:    Warchild claims it would be survivable to jump off from above
         the navigation lights. I'd like to watch 8-)
         Jump off Iron Cove instead, its safer. Fun too.
Found:   1993 Predator


Name:    Glebe Island.
Other:   Anzac Bridge (present name)
Descrip: Huge suspension bridge with climbable pylons.
Feat:    20 minute climb, huge stay cable anchors, massive space,
         tunnel under roadway
Acc:     Throw rope over base of east pylon. (Bank St 055 B18)
         Anchor it off something,
         (other members of expo) prussick up, and throw over wire ladder
         Otherwise use a solid ladder that is at least 30ft long. Pick lock,
         or get Sydclan key for roller door. Ascend stairs to top of pylon.
         Access to roof of pylon is at explorers own risk as hatch is
alarmed
         Also, northern abutment is accessible by expansion hole above
         hatch on western wall. Some nice switchboards controlling
         lighting inside.
         Also, hatches to belly of bridge can be seen from Northern
         abutment,no-one has opened these as yet.
Wet:     Dry
Todo:    Underbelly of bridge also contains long bridge rooms. Access
         should be obtainable from hatches at north abutment. May need
         ladders to access. However, they look small(4ft tall). Find a way
         of opening rooftop hatch without triggering alarm.
Int:     Very Good. Until we get onto rooftop, Mooney Mooney and Gladesville
         are more spectacular.
Care:    Mega fines/possible imprisonment for those caught. Do not try to
         open doors on road level or just below, they are all alarmed.
         Climbing western pylon base will render you visible to Port
         Authorities, and Water Police.
Found:   1995 Predator


Name:    Lode Runner
Other:
Descrip: Fairly large concrete Bridge
Feat:    7-13ft tall, wide, with elevated centre platforms, hatches
         leading to tops of peirs.
Loc:     Hume Highway.
Acc:     The next major bridge after Pheasants Nest, bridge takes road
         up a big hill. Park on southern side, Go in thru door in abuttment.
         Door may be padlocked and is jammed so it needs a good kick to 
open.
Exit:    Back.
Care:    Huge spiders living on door. The road shoulder at this bridge is 
real
         narrow, watch for traffic and park tightly into verge.
Photos:  Yeup.
Int:     Good


Name     Lennox. 15m long.
Descrip: Tunnels through stonework of old bridge over Parramatta River.
         Actually should be four sets of tunnels, but only one set is
         now accessible, and that only by thin, agile people.
         They are short and cramped, only one place where can stand up,
         but worth looking at. Have heard a story that the tunnels in
         this bridge connect up with very old convict built tunnels that
         go Nth from the bridge up under Church St. Supposedly these
         tunnels were used as a gaol in early days. To check this out,
         need to get into tunnels in the other half of the north end of
         the bridge: see 'todo'.
Loc:     Sydways 80/N13, Parramatta.
Acc:     Small opening at base of East side of Nth end of arch. Is
         'blocked' with a huge concrete block, but there is a gap that
         can be squeezed through with extreme awkwardness. Must go in
         head-first, as you need to climb up, and not enough room to
         turn around first. Getting out involves wriggling downwards
         feet first through same hole.
Todo:    There is an identical opening in the W side of the Nth arch,
         but it is nearly full of earth, and the identical concrete
         block is really in the way. Need heavy duty winch, spade, etc.
         This one would connect to convict tunnels, if they exist.
Care:    Accessing this bridge is VERY painful, removes skin from chest,
         crunches groin etc. Also, it is easy to get wedged around
         the shoulder region on the way out.
Int:     Very Good. It took S/// and Hatchet 3 hours of digging and car
         jacking to get enough space to squeeze thru
Diff:    Very painful and hard to get into.
Now:     Has been filled in, but could be dug out.
Found:   1993 Diode/Mullet


Name:    Mr India's. 800m long.
Other:   Mooney Mooney Ck Bridge (real name)
Descrip: Huge bridge, internally massive, Mooney Mooney Ck bridge
Feat:    Maximum ceiling height of 6 storeys, old p.c equipment, its
         like a giant halfpipe.
Loc:     Syd/Newcastle Highway
Acc:     Drive to Lookout area, bushbash to abutment. Door should be open.
Int:     Excellent
Found:   1998 Mr India


Name:    One Eyed Python. 550m long.
Descrip: Hollow Rail Viaduct.
Feat:    Many rooms, 6ft with triangle shaped rooms off to the sides.
         Numerous artefacts, old newspaper, plans, big chunks of styrofoam.
Loc:     Woolloomooloo. 026 M18
Acc:     From Sir John Young Crs walk up the south side of the viaduct
         and up onto the viaduct, 50m out on the surface of the viaduct
         there is a gatic manhole. Pop this to get in.
Care:    Mind for trains.
Exit:    None
Photos:  Course
Int:     Good
Found:   1999 Siologen


Name:    Pheasants Nest. 400m long.
Descrip: Hollow concrete road bridge with Huge rooms, electricity, and
         equipment.
Loc:     South Western Freeway, 3km Sth of Wilton Rd.
Acc:     Use ladder or something similar to access the hatches at north
         end of bridge. Best done at night.
Exit:    South end locked.
Wet:     Dry.
Int:     Excellent
Found:   1996 Diode


Name:    Predators. 100m long.
Descrip: Series of rooms within structure under rail bridge over
         Gore Hill Fwy
Loc:     Artarmon, near Cleland Rd. 035 C13
Feat:    Several long 6'H rooms with portals between them.
Care:    Avoid being seen by cars on expressway when entering or
         exiting.
Acc:     Park in Artarmon reserve (near oval). Follow rail embankment to
         Bridge. Duck around and under bridge, and drop into hollow
         behind retaining wall. Climb ladder to hatchway.
Exit:    Same as entry.
Wet:     Bone Dry.
Int:     Average
Todo:    Play tennis with the stray pigeons that get stuck in there.
Found:   1992 Predator


Name:    Powder Box. 20m long.
Descrip: Small metal box shaped bridge room under Western Distributor
         ramp.About 20m long. 6' high, 5'wide.
Feat:    Not much, but there is a lot of white powder lying all over the
         at the end.
Loc:     Cnr Pyrmont St and Camden St (exit laneway), Pyrmont. 025 E20
Acc:     Climb on top of fence for electricity sub-station on Pyrmont
         St.
         Hatch to bridge room is above metal gate in fence, push up.
Care:    Do this one only in the early hours of the morning. High
         security exists in the adjacent building.
Exit:    None.
Wet:     Very Dry.
Int:     Average
Found:   1997 Ogre


Name:    Seven Dwarves. 200m long.
Descrip: Old bridgeroom, with big abuttment and 7 x 6ft underbellies.
Feat:    Large expansion crack(pee on cars), access to girders outside
         above Circular Quay Rail Station, knarly ladders.
Loc:     Cahill Expressway. 024 L14
Acc:     Takes Cahill Expressway over Maquarie St, access is a thick
         spiderwebber manhole on the north east side of the bridge just
         to the north of the actual expressway, at same level.
Care:    Ladder is dodgy.
Exit:    Access to girders via padlocked gate, beyond girders is access
         to the pavement alongside the expressway.
Wet:     No, unless your peeing on cars.
Int:     Average
Found:   1998 Siologen/Ogre


Name:    Silverwater. 450m long.
Descrip: Medium sized road bridge with abutments and 4 sets of 15 rooms
         going from nth to sth sides.
Feat:    Missionary entry and a lot of obsticals on the way from one side
         to the other, inc. 18 inch wide portals 6ft up, cables, etc.
Loc:     Silverwater.(253,Q18)
Acc:     From the sth end of Fallon St walk to the nth end of the bridge,
         up the enbankment, to the centre of the abutment. Then, if you have
         an upper rib cage and butt/thigh diameter of 86cm/32 inches, you
         can  squeeze thru the gutter outlet at the base of the big cage.
         Otherwise, at night, hacksaw thru the bars.
         Padlock on Sth side is very encased and inaccessible for bolties.
Wet:     Entry via the gutter is restricted to at least a week after last
         rain, as the gutter collects 3 inch deep water
Exit:    None.
Int:     Good
Diff:    Tight squeeze to get in.
Found:   1998 Siologen/Hatchet


Name:    Sydney Harbour Bridge Arch. 600m long.
Descrip: Walkway over top of the coathanger.
Feat:    The view.
Note:    See "The Kursk" entry below for a better, easier way up the
         coathanger.
Care:    Beware exposure! Wear black clothing and use absolute minimum
         torch..
         Do it after 2:30 or 3:00am when the lights go out in the
         trusswork.
         The space between the abutment and the arch is occupied by...
         the security office! (Superglue their locks?)
         Do it on a warm summer night so your body gives less contrast
         to the rumoured-to-exist (but not proven) IR detectors.
         The fine if you're busted is A$2200. I suspect a good way to
         out of this if you get caught is to rave on that you hate the
         world and your mother's a psycho and your sister's a drunk and
         you were anally raped by your dad's flat mate as a child and
         you just (sob!) couldn't live (sniff) with it (etc) and you
         wanted to end it all but the beauty of the view convinced you
         otherwise - they may just take you for a head case and let you
         go with some counselling. Don't carry ID, give a false name,
         etc.
Acc:     Go to the Luna Park end (north). There is a road which runs
         around under the bridge between the abutments and the
         foreshore. Start here at the slope of the west abutment.
         Take arunning start and climb up this and scale the fence
         (beware of razor wire). You're now up in the lower trusswork.
         Take the lower arch on the right and ascend the stairs up to
         the middle of the black diagonal trusses.
         Now, take the stairs\arch on the (?) left, there is an enclosed
         shaft. Climb up the stepirons inside of it. You come out to a
         platform with a light on it. A bit of minor gymnastics here
         involving the handrail sees you across to the stairs on the
         arch, which you climb until you get to the top. At the top,
         aside from a view which is probably worth $1000 (but is better
         free) is a little shed on motorised wheels which has paint
         stuff on it, and also many more initials and bits of graffiti
         than the government would like.
         Take some time exposures, and then head down before the
         sunrise.
Note:    This is the OLD AND UNRELIABLE method for getting up the bridge
         for more RELIABLE methods read the "Kursk" entry below.
Wet:     Only if it rains.
Int:     Excellent. For the vista.


Name:    Sydney Harbour Bridge Gangway. 500m long.
Descrip: Gangway running under length of Harbour bridge.
Feat:    View? Missing walkway section.
Care:    High security means big fines if caught.
Acc:     Walk up the bikepath from the southern end. Where the main arch
         section comes up through the street level, jump the fence,
         cross the rail lines and look for a stairway down. Take it and
         you'll be met by a typical looking house door with a lockwood
         lock on it. This isn't a deadlatch, and if someone in your
         group is skinny enough they can wiggle through the gap and open
         it (which is preferable to kicking the door down.) Once in, go
         directly left,  to do otherwise may set of I.R.sup steps to gantry
         that leads along under footpath. Walk to other side if you want.
Exit:    May be possible to exit from the north end of the bridge if
         doors down through north pillar are unlocked. This would
         involve walking on the section with no floor to get to the
         north pillar though.
Wet:     Dry, unless it's raining or you fall.
Int:     Very Good


Name:    Sydney Harbour Bridge - inside lower arch.
Other:   The Kursk
Descrip: Another, very dramatic and safer way to the top of the bridge.
Feat:    64 bulkhead squeezes and 5 million rivets.
Care:    Being sprung while up top. Avoid dropping anything.
         Beware trains, they make virtually _no_ noise until they are
         right next to you.
Acc:     #1: Cycleway from Nth end, to rail line section between the two
         arches. Observe series of hatches in deck between rails; sth-most
         one is wooden and can be coaxed into opening despite padlocked 
bolt.
         Down here, follow arch ladders & steps down to abuttment hinge.
         #2: Abbutment at NW hinge of lower arch - climb up over razor
         wire and fence onto concrete platform.
         Now the ways converge. Squeeze up into arch body over top of
         hinge, in the _center_ cavity of arch. There is an opening that
         has been grilled then de-grilled. Sharp edges! Keep going up.
         At the very top there is a hatch in the roof that is open.
         From here ladders & stairs lead to a final movable ladder that
         may or may not be in place to allow access to the top of top arch.
Exit:    Did not try going down to Sth abbutment inside arch. Grilled?
Wet:     Never!
Int:     Very Good


Name:    Strathallen Ave Suspension Bridge Pylons
Descrip: High concrete pylons of bridge. Hollow, maybe 25 meters high
         inside, with metal ladder. Room near top, access to cross arch
         space and to outside at very top (under roadway).
Feat:    All the pigeon poo you could want.
Care:    Don't fall off narrow ledges. Keep someone outside.
Loc:     [Sydway 36 K15].
Acc:     Park in 'The Boulevard', steps down to park at cnr with
         Miller St, down thru bush to south eastern pylon of Suspension
         Bridge. Need to get through approx 20cm wide by 1m high slit
         window, that is about 3m above ground. There was a wooden beam
         leaning against wall, which helped. Once inside, edge round on
         25cm ledge above 5m drop, to ladder on other wall.
Exit:    I suppose you could jump off top.
Phot:    Yes.
Wet:     Be prepared to be bombed by pigeons in dark while climbing
         ladder.
Int:     Average
Todo:    Get into towers.
Found:   1992 Diode


Name:    Strathallen Ave Suspension Bridge Towers.
Descrip: Two old sandstone towers, that used to support cables on what
         used to be a suspension bridge, that has since been converted
         to free standing. (Pylons)
Feat:    Old spiraling staircase, all sandstone. Anchor rooms, with
         remains of anchors. Sandstone bridge between towers. Ladders
         up to top. Half decent view of local area.
Loc:     Cremorne 36 K15
Acc:     On Strathallen Ave, go to south eastern tower base. Use
         two milk crates or other objects to climb up to hatch.
         lift hatch and swing it back. Cover ears as it clatters
         down. Climb in.
Exit:    Sames as the way in.
Care:    May Be padlocked.
Cond:    Has been de-pigeoned. Sandstone restored.
Int:     Good
Found:   2000 Siologen


Name:    Tarban Creek. 250m long.
Descrip: 5 parallel bridgerooms
Feat:    45 degree access shafts, round portals, max height 15ft.
Loc:     Gladesville 043 B04
Acc:     Down embankment from the dead end of Huntleys Pt Rd. Crowbar
         needed to get hinges of hatches loosde, or Bolties for padlock.
         In order to get into all five rooms you must break in to all
         five hatches as the rooms do not connect.
Int:     Very Good
Found:   1998 Siologen


Name:    Thunderbox. 120m long.
Descrip: Abutment and 200m long crawl space under western distributor
         Pedestrian bridge.
Feat:    Veiwing cracks, loads of ratshit, booms as you crawl through.
Loc:     Ultimo 025 E20
Acc:     Door in abutment, where pedestrian bridge reaches Harris St,
         next to lower Western Dist., up lane from Powder Box
Exit:    Crawl back
Int:     Hardcore mission: Average
Found:   1998 Ogre


Name:    Tom Ugly's. 700m long.
Decrip:  Princess Highway bridge over mouth of Georges River, Sth
         Blakehurst. 335 H17
Feat:    Steel welded box construction, lots of girders inside.
Acc:     Under North abutment, Through grille, then enter hatch on side
         pylon. Hatches are locked. Take boltcutters or hacksaw.
Exit:    Usually locked at south end.
Int:     Good
Now:     Hole at North end of bridge has been covered over with stronger
         mesh. Take boltcutters and cut new hole or remove locks on
         gate.
Found:   1996 Predator


Name:    Toto's Yellow. 400m long.
Other:   Meadowbank Bridge (real name)
Descrip: 12ft high steel box bridge, split into 2 sets of 5 sections.
Feat:    Height, noise and bodily sensation when trains go over it when
         you are inside.
Loc:     Meadowbank to Rhodes. Sydways:254 N17
Acc:     From south end of Bank st, walk down thru park to gate over to
         lines, jump fence and walk to north end of bridge. To get down
         to door you need the key to the cage surrounding the ladder. A
         copy can be aquired from various Cave Clan personnel.
Exit:    At the other end.
Care:    This bridge has 21 padlocks on it, between sections. If you do
         the whole thing from side to side, be careful not to drop key
         on the outside while opening the padlocks, as this will render
         you prisoner.
         The padlocks are Master(tm)ie: Boltie proof.
         Avoid being seen by trains.
Int:     Good
Found:   1998 Hatchet/Predator


Name:    The Wedge. 50m long.
Descrip: Wedge shaped bridge room that is 9ft at one end and 4ft at the
         other.
Feat:    Pipes, cables and a balcony
Loc:     Domain/Woolloomooloo. 056 N17
Acc:     Small gatic in eastern foot path at north end of the bridge that
         across the Eastern Distributor, 100m from the Art Gallery on
         Art Gallery Rd.
Exit.    None other.
Int:     Average
Todo:    Pop the other 5 gatics in the bridge.
Found:   1999 Tyr


Name:    Western Distributor Flyover. 600m long.
Descrip: Underbellies of twin bridges each with 6 rooms. Rooms are
         approx 80m long with small loaf shaped tunnels between each
         room. The roof and floor of each room is curved, being 4'6 at
         sides and 6'2 in middle.
Feat:    Post stressing cables mounted in concrete blocks inside bridge.
         Hundreds of new fluorescent tubes lying in north bridge.
Loc:     Raised Roadway/Bridge, between Darling harbour fly overs and
         Glebe Island Bridge. 025 E20
Acc:     North end of Bulwarra Rd, Pyrmont, under the South flyover
         where it crosses the road is a 1m square hatch held up with one
         bolt. Use a shifting spanner to remove bolt. Hatch is
         lightweight, hinged and has a ladder on the inside for entry.
         The hatch for the North flyover is directly north of the South
         one, but is on the East side of the road. This one has two
         bolts in it and is higher up, but is easier to open as bolts
         are only fingertight and there is no fear of a car running into
         the open hatch(or You).
Exit:    none.
Wet:     Occasional water on floor.
Int:     Good
Care:    It is possible to get run over by cars at night while opening the
         Northern of these pair.
Found:   1998 Ogre


Name:    Western Distributor Mini's (The Comb, The Concrete Tim Tam, What
         Shall we call It?) 100m, 75m, 150m long
Descrip: The Comb: 4ft underbelly split into 8 sections, each 60m long
         and  2m wide.
         The Concrete Tim Tam: Twin 4ft underbellies, 30m long.
         What shall We call It: 2X4ft underbellies, w/ 18inch pipe joining
         them.
Feat:    Not much, good echo in W.S.W.C.I.
Loc:     Darling Harbour/Ultimo
Acc:     The Concrete Tim Tam: Hatch in fenced off area where makeshift
         substation is, where Western Distributor splits, west end of
         King st. Sydways: 55 G18
         The Comb: Hatch above shallow embankment, off footpath, west of
         huge metal flowers (sculptures) on Bathurst St. Bolts are
         finger tight. Sydways:55G20
         W.S.W.C.I:  The underbelly of the foremost west down ramp from
         the Western Distributor. 200m NE of the Blackwattle SLR Station.
         Sydways: 55C20
Int:     Boring, Average, Average.
Found:   1998 Siologen. Siologen. Mr India.


Name:    Wet Pussy, Dry Pussy.
Descrip: Two bridge abuttments that sit 4m below the Syd/Newcstle Fwy,
         supporting the Old Princes Hwy as it crosses.
Feat:    Oddly shaped bridge abuttments, about 3m high. Eastern is 5ft deep
         in water (The Wet One), western is dry (The Dry One).
Loc:     Small bridge carrying the Pacific hwy over F1, 4kms from Brooklyn.
Acc:     In teired rock covered sides of road, under bridge there are 
hatches.
         Lift these.
Int:     Average.
Wet:     Ones like an 18 year old, the other an 88 year old:)
Found:   2001 Siologen, named by Trioxide.


Name:    Woronora Bridge
Descrip: Long, very high road bridge.
Feat:    12 ft high, 450m long, with triangle cavity divides, small
         abutments. Internal drainage.
         Very cool external pedestrian walkway.
         Hollow Pylons.
Loc:     Woronora. 353 R06
Acc:     At eastern end, climb in thru expansion gap near doorway and
         start of pedestrian walkway. Dont use door as it is being
         watched by camera.
Exit:    Back the way you came.
Wet:     Damp.
Photos:  Yup
Care:    Dont do on weekdays, or during normal construction hours.
Int:     Very Good.
Found:   2000 Bullwagon


*************************************************************************
* SYDNEY BUNKERS *********************************************_bunk******
*************************************************************************


Name:    Anzac Rifle Range.
Descrip: Two pillboxes and lookout tower, connected by tunnel, with
         underground rooms.
Care:    When in line with the firing range, keep low.
Cond:    Well known, much visited.
Loc:     [Sydway 338 Q1] Along cliffs north of Boora Pt.
Acc:     From Fisherman's Rd, walk around the heads (Take the cliff path
         not the seaside one) till you can make a straight line towards
         the wind generator. North of the wind generator scout around
         till you find a trench with rail tracks in it. Jump in and
         start walking north. You will come across a 3 storey look out
         tower with a cement arch over the trench. A large room joins
         onto it on your right just before the tower. Look for the
         ladies handbag in this room. Go into the tower, stairs will
         greet you with rooms at every flight. Excellent views from the
         lookouts on the 2nd and 3rd (top) stories. Have a look on the
         right side of the building (facing it from the seaside front)
         for our tags.(Bunker Boyz)
         Continue further north in the trench. You will come across a
         single storey building on your right. 1st room had door shut,
         try and open it, see what's in there???
         Further along the tunnel disappears into the hill. Follow it.
         There are now two tunnels. Left and right. Go down the one on
         the right. You will notice small rooms along the right hand
         wall of the tunnel.
Int:     Good
Phot:    Yes
Found:   1992 Predator



Name:    Bankstown.
Descrip: Old Airforce command post used during world war II. Rumoured to
         have four levels of underground fun, but only two levels have
         been found.
         Bunker is buried deep beneath ground and is well hidden.
Feat:    Huge rooms, historical value.
Loc:     Cnr  Edgar and Marion St's, Condell Pk
Acc:     Its under a house. Involves squeezing under the bunkers roof,
         crawling along a tunnel that gets gradually smaller, squeezing
         round a tight bend, climbing off a ledge, into a wall cavity
         then, squeezing thru a hole in the wall.
Wet:     dry.
Int:     Excellent
Found:   1995 Diode/Predator


Name:    Barbette.
Descrip: 1870 bunker.. thats still on military land.
Feat:    Big bush bash to get to it, circular formation of rooms with
         connecting tunnels. Contains military wine cellar, under lock
         and key.
Hist:    Main command for surrounding pre WWI bunkers. Now heritage area
         surrounded by army facilities.
Loc:     Mosman/Georges Heights. 048 M03
Acc:     Bush Bash from 20m N of the carpark at the end of Chowder Bay
         Rd. A machete'd path should be visible up to and beyond a hole
         in perimeter fence. From there, climb a small rock crop up to
         gun circles.
Exit:    Back the way you came.
Care:    Dont get caught, do at night and use minimal torchlight, as
         there are military dorms on the premises, with army dudes in em.
Int:     Very Good
Found:   1999 Maddog


Name:    Camp Cove.
Descrip: WWII bunker at camp cove.
Feat:    Old and dank, sealed air tight for 30 years,
         two long tunnels, with many staircases, except the steps
         have been removed. One tunnel eventually goes underwater,
         the other ends at a bricked up doorway, two main rooms join
         tunnels
Care:    Don't get stuck in shaft.
Hist:    Part of the net across the harbour defence in WWII.
Cond:    Old, wet, stair slopes very slippery.
Loc:     End of Pacific St Watsons Bay. 049 B04
Acc:     On the west side of house there is a smashed slab of
         concrete, remove this and the tin, wood under it.
         Use a rope, with loops or a wire ladder to descend 5m shaft
         into bunker. Make sure to put beams, plate and rubble back on
         after as you could kill someone if they fell in.
Exit:    Back up shaft.
Wet:     If you wade into the flooded bit, otherwise no.
Int:     Very Good
Found:   1999 Maddog


Name:    Dirges.
Descrip: Underground magazine rooms West Head.
Feat:    2 rooms ajoined by corridore and filled in shaft.
Care:    Bush bashing can hurt!!, check gate closing times.
Cond:    Ok
Loc:     Ku-Ring-Gai Chase National Park (West Head) 159 M08
Acc:     Behind first gun emplacement about 30m, bush bash through dense
	 scrub until you find a half caved in doorway. (Refer to West
	 Head bunkers).
Exit:    Same way in.
Wet:     No
Int:     4
Todo:    Look around for more stuff in jungle.
Found:   1999 Dirge


Name:    Flagstaff Point.
Descrip: Small Bunker under a light house.
Feat:    Gun circle, various Rooms.
Loc:     Wollongong. Greg: 07 F07
Acc:     At the base of the lighthouse off the circle road, thats at the
         junction of Endeavour and Marine Drives. Either remove padlock from
         main door or use rope to climb into gun circle, with sits next to
         lighthouse.
Exit:    Back the way you came.
Wet:     No.
Int:     Average
Found:   1999 Maddog


Name:    F.Y.T.O. (Freeze Yer Tits Off)
Descrip: Big house looking structure.
Feat:    Half submerged structure in ground with one big room in it. Has
	 a corridor going around it and a tunnel headed south which is
	 bricked up with a power cable running through it. Named as such
	 because Dirge reckons some part of her body was cold at the time.
Care:    Active Naval land, enter at own risk, do not touch equipment,
	 Be discreet, do late at night and in small numbers.
	 6ft drop to get in and is within 3m of navy houses.
Cond:    Not bad
Loc:     HMAS Watson, South Head.
Acc:     Further north of Hmas Watson bunker (150m or so), you go
	 through the bush next to the main road into the Navy base
	 still by the cliff and you will come to it. Jump down into
	 it in silence.
Exit:    Way you came.
Wet:     No
Int:     Good
Todo:    Figure out how to smash through walls without making noise!!
Found:   1999 Maddog


Name:    Gecko.
Descrip: Bunker at South Head.
Feat:    2 gun circles, wooden floors, painted doorframes, flooded
	 lower section and maybe some reptiles.
Care:    10ft drop getting in.
Cond:    Very good.
Loc:     South Head, Ocean side.
Acc:     Drive to the end of cliff st and park. Walk along the track
	 out to South Head. about 100m south of the light house (red &
	 white striped) you will see bunkers. Manhole key with hook
	 will be useful and a few helpers to get the slab of "new"
	 concrete off the top of the shaft. (slab has a eye hole for
         hook). Lower yourself down the 10ft drop with a rope.
Exit:    Climb the rope out of the shaft.
Wet:     No, except lower section flooded.
Int:     Very Good
Todo:    Dive lower section.
Found:   1999 Ogre/Dirge


Name:    Grotto Point.
Other:   Middle Head #5
Descrip: Extensive Bunker, hidden in bushes, built in 1871.
Feat:    Many side passages, big rooms, a bricked up  side tunnel,
         twisting and turning main tunnel, all sandstone. Also in very nice
         condition, thanks to secluded location, no sign of fires, little
         graff.
Loc:     Middle Head. Was called "Grotto Pt" by mistake, as Grotto Pt is
         actually on North Head 038P17
Acc:     From cricket pitch car park off Chowder Bay Rd, walk across the
         cricket pitch towards the north, thru the gate on the other side.
         Follow the trail there, around the army land. From there you will
         come to a clearing with houses and a road. Follow the road 50m to
         where it becomes a trail into bush. Continue along the trail and
         look for a channel to the right. 20m on from that channel will be
         the bunker entrance, semi in ground.
Exit:    Quite a few.
Wet:     Puddles.
Int:     Excellent
Found:   1998 Mr India


Name:    Henry Head.
Loc:     Off Anzac Pde, turn left at National Park sign (The street
         after Grose Street). Follow till end of locked gate at Pistol
         club.(Cape Banks) or Up Golf Course Road (Henry Head). The
         bunker is marked by the lighthouse its next to, on street
         directories. 338E15
Int:     Good
Descrip: To get to the Henry Head bunkers go up the golf course road
         (make sure there are no functions at the club house as there
         will be a security man (Carlen Security) patrolling the area.
         Keep following the road along to the left past the club house.
         You will come to some sheds on your left. Keep going till you
         get into the bush.
         You will shortly notice a bunker in front of you. Going in this
         sees you going down stairs into a building filled with lots of
         underground rooms. This is the main building. Scout around and
         you will find other buildings near the cliffs, some turrets
         where they housed the big guns. This part isn't really
         exciting. To exit go back the way you came.
Found:   1992 Predator


Name:    Hill 60
Descrip: WW2 Bunkers and tunnels.
Feat:    Two big downward sloping tunnels, with rails and staircases, lotsa
         rooms, two big gun circles one with the remains of a large gunhead.
Loc:     Port Kembla. Wollongong Gregorys: 11G8
Acc:     At the eastern end of Military Rd, tun left into carpark which has
         an old radar station in it. From there walk east down steps, over
         road, and with Coast Guard to your left walk east to road gate, and
         down into small gully. To the left there are doors and remains of
         bunkers. Left hand door should be open.
Exit:    Many.
Wet:     No
Int:     Very Good
Found:   1999 Trioxide/Tyr


Name:    HMAS Watson.
Descrip: Active Bunker for communications used by Navy.
Feat:    Has not been entered yet. 2 weird Antennas sitting over gun
	 placements, Air conditioned, Lights on inside. 2 huge radar
	 looking dishes on top
Care:    Active Naval land, enter at own risk, do not touch equipment,
	 Be discreet, do late at night and in small numbers. I expect
	 there would be computer equipment inside and strongly recommend
	 you dont enter this bunker unless you have a death wish.
Cond:    Living standards.
Loc:     HMAS Watson, South Head.
Acc:     Just to the north of Satellite bunker, you will actually walk
	 over it and hear the humm of the air-con. Entry to the bunker
	 is from the car park and is highly visible to navel staff.
	 (refer to Satellite bunker).
Exit:    Way you came.
Wet:     No
Int:     Good?
Todo:    Cross your fingures and go in!!!
Found:   1999 Maddog


Name:    Howie's.
Loc:     Off Anzac Pde, turn left at National Park sign (The street
         after Grose Street). Follow till end of locked gate at Pistol
         club.
         (Cape Banks) or Up Golf Course Road (Henry Head).
Int:     Very Good
Care:    Place is chocas with loose asbestos, on floors, walls etc, was
         used for insulation
Descrip: World war 2 army bunker.
Acc:     Sydways 338J12 As you approach the pistol club on your left
         there is a hill covered in foliage on your right. Keep following
         around thebase of this hill up onto the scout camp area till you
         see thegolf course on your right and a path leading up to a tee off
         point. Go up here and follow along the right hand skirt of the
         golf course, over the green till you see a rather large
         clearing/path on your right leading up to some houses. Follow
         this path and veer to your right up the slope of the hill. You
         will eventually find a cement opening with stairs leading into
         the hill. Here you are. Be quiet until you get into the bunker
         coz of the army guys in the houses.
         They get pretty cheesed off if they find u trespassing on the
         land. Also, during the day time if u go, watch out for golfers
         on the golf course coz its private and there is a security
         guard riding around on his motorbike with his dog looking for
         deviates like us. Once at the bunker stairs there is a beehive
         on the left on the inside of the opening. Going down sees u
         come across your 1st door.
Exit:    Exit either the way you came of climb up the chimney shaft at
         the right corner of the farthest room.
Found:   1996 Howie



Name:    Hype's.
Loc:     Tommoree Head, Port Stevens
         They face out to sea and at other headlands
Care:    Local Mental hospital patients can be dangerous
         Be wary of locals as they WILL call police and M-police too
         (how I lost the camera)
Todo:    Small blow torch or some sort of cutting device for thick metal
Found:   ?????


Name:    Maddogs.
Descrip: WWII army bunker at South Head.
Feat:    Intact shell loader and clean bunker, few shells outside.
Care:    On active Naval land, enter at own risk (need I say more!)
Cond:    Good
Loc:     Just south of Gecko bunker, HMAS Watson at South Head.
Acc:     Walk out to South Head, when you reach a bunker on the cliff
	 side (Gecko) walk south along the cliff and go around the fence
	 of the naval base. Bunker is under flag pole.
Exit:    Same way came in.
Wet:     No
Int:     Very good
Found:   1999 Maddog


Name:    Middle Head #1
Descrip: World War II bunker
Feat:    lots of sub rooms leading off everywhere - all empty. Lots of
         powerpoints/switches, none which work.
Loc:     Georges Heights [Middle Head] 048M02
Acc:     Drive S down Chowder Bay Rd and just before the road swings to
         the W, keep a good lookout on the E side of the road and you
         will see a large tunnel with iron doors at the mouth below road
         level, but next to the road and running parallel with it.
         This complex has 5 entrances, all welded shut to some degree,
         but the only way in is via the N most one [the one you see
         driving along the road]. A good place to park is in the gravel
         on the inside of the corner just before you go through the gate
         to the Chowder Bay barracks [100m S from tunnel ent.]. The top
         of the N door has been pulled outward & you can slide over the
         top of the door easily.
Exit:    via N door [where you came in].
Int:     Good
Found:   1992 Predator



Name:    Middle Head #2
Descrip: World War II gun emplacement
Feat:    Sink! Views.
Loc:     Georges Heights (Middle Head) 048M03
Acc:     Head SE from Middle Head bunker #1, just NE of old 3storey
         lookout
Exit:    Doorway
Int:     Average
Found:   1992 Predator


Name:    Middle Head #3
Descrip: Pre-World War bunker used for old cannon-ball type cannons.
Feat:    Remnants of one cannon still remains. High domes ceilings.
         Three bunkers networked together. As Seen in the Film "Stone"
Loc:     Georges Heights (Middle Head) 043M02
Acc:     Main entry is a set stairs leading to a door on the East side
         of Chowder Bay Road. The door has 1872 inscribed above it. This
         door is usually locked so follow alternate entry:
         Head North along bottom of coastline cliffs from Middle Head
         #2,until you come to 3 large square holes cut into the cliff
         face.
         These holes shrink to 2ft square and one of them has had it's
         grille cut at the top to permit entry.
	   On the way to these bunkers from #2 you pass over a concrete
         section with a 1ft square hole leading into the cliff. Look
         inside but entry is tight and getting out is a problem. Inside
         this small hole is the wave powered air circulation system used
         to aerate bunkers or buildings on top of cliffs (now
         demolished??)
Exit:    Exit from bunkers hole in grille or door (if unlocked)
Int:     Very Good
Found:   1992 Predator


Name:    Middle Head #4
Descrip: Extensive system of bunkers, trenches and gun circles.
Feat:    Old sandstone construction, famous interrogation rooms,
         numerous corridors, trapdoors, shell storage areas, rooms,
         tunnels. Has one interesting flooded section, full of clear
         water.
Loc:     Middle Head 038 Q19
Acc:     Same as for Grotto Pt, park at Middle Head oval at the end of
         Middle Head Rd. Walk across the oval, around the army houses
         to the big clearing. Head right to the eastern gates to the
         Military reserve and from the gates take the right hand road
         until you reach the bunkers. Most of them should be unlocked.
Exit:    Various.
Care:    Official tours are run.
Wet:     One bunker contains knee deep water.
Int:     Very Good
Found:   1998 Mr India/Ogre/Dirge



Name:    Midnight Shaft
Descrip: WWII military establishment of some sort, halfway down a 80m sea
	 cliff at signal hill. Originally had a shaft at end but now
	 filled in.
Feat:    Hardcore abseil down cliff, flooded lower section, original
	 electric motor, rotted wooden floor and breathtaking views.
Care:    Rotted floor will give way over the flooded level so don't walk
	 on it.
Cond:	 Supports on pill box eroded, floor rotted, other than that it's
	 original.
Loc:     Pretty much under Macquarie Lighthouse off South Head road.
Acc:     Walk down the park and when you come to the ocean, walk about
	 10m to the left facing the ocean.(this is the lowest point of
	 the cliff) You will see a rusted bar and slab of concrete in
         front of you through the fence. About 3m to the left should
         see you just about land next to the pill box which can only be
         seen once over the cliff. Saddle up and over u go.
Exit:    Abseil and Prussic gear essential(50m or more of rope), back the
	 way you came.
Wet:     Only if you fall in the lower level.
Int:     Excellent
Todo:    Dive the lower level.
Found:   1999 Maddog


Name:    Nobbys Head.
Descrip: Imposing looking defense tower sitting upon bunker, at the base of
         a huge rock outcrop.
Feat:    Good views, no ladders or staircases, welded up lower section,
         three storeys high.
Loc:     Newcastle East. Ubd: 20A10.
Acc:     From carpark at the n end of Nobbys rd, walk up the road that leads
         to the lighthouse. Halfway along this, take the left hand fork, and
         follow until you come to the bunker on your right. To get in, climb
         onto 1st floor from rear. Use improvised ladders etc, to get to 
top.
Todo:    Get into welded up sections.
Wet:     In basement.
Int:     Good
Found:   2000 Striker


Name:    North Head Elevator
Descrip: Bunker in cliff face.
Feat:    Entry
Loc:     North Head.
Acc:     From S end of Parkhill Dr, Take walking trail to Easternmost
         point of North head. Follow dirt track to small brick/stone
         building. This is what remains of the top of the access
         elevator for the bunker.
         Use shack to secure abseiling equiptment or wire ladder.
         Entrance to Bunker is midway down cliff face below shack. Do
         not attempt to scale cliffs.
Exit:    Use wire ladder to climb back up to top, or abseil to bottom of
         cliff and walk around to the southern point of the head and use
         fishermen's ladder to return to walking track.
Int:     2
Found:   1997 Mr India


Name:    North Head Fortress
Descrip: 2 big fortifications at North Head.
Feat:    9.2 inch gun emplacements in north and south forts. Both are
	 connected via long tunnels. Set up for tourists with dressed up
	 mannequins, first aid room, shell loader rooms with plastic
	 shells, engine room with engines and generators. Above ground
	 features lots of WWII machinary including a 9.2 inch gun, anti-
         aircraft guns, huge spot lights and so on.
Care:    Is on active army land. Internal sound speakers activate as you
         walk through the tunnel (for the tourists). Take note of gate
         closing times.
Cond:    North fort = 100%, South fort = 70% and rising!!!
Loc:     North Head scenic drive, North Head.
Acc:	 Take North Head scenic drive to just before the end where you
         will see the tourist site (North Fort). Keep going 200m up the
         road and jump the wall which has cemented glass in it and find
         your own way through the dirt tracks until you find the cement
         circles. Once in the circle, slide through the shell loaders
         and climb down to the tunnel.(restricted to slim people)
Exit:    Same way in.
Wet:     No
Int:     Excellent
Found:   1999 Maddog/Dirge


Name:    Pistol Range.
Other:   Cape Banks Bunker #2
Descrip: WWII army bunker at La Parouse.
Feat:    Not much, but worth doing anyway if in the area.
         Some machinery and fittings.
Loc:     Take the next left turn after Grose St off Anzac Pde, follow this
         thru the golf course gates (daytime) all the way to the old Pistol
         range. From there, walk 150m south. After dark, the Golfcourse
         gates close, so youll have to walk. 338 K13
Acc:     Entry to this bunker is approx 100m Sth of The Squeeze.
         Entrance is easy to spot if on the west side of surface
         buildings.
Exit:    Ladder in shaft to surface. (Warning: very old rusty ladder)
Wet:     Always dry.
Int:     Average
Found:   1992 Predator


Name:    Quarantine Head.
Descrip: Ancient Bunker half way down cliff face.
Feat:    Age, access and decaying roof.
Loc:     Quarantine Head, 200m South of South Eastern most point in
         quarantine station, thru bush.
Acc:     Find small lookout box facing towards South Head. Look over
         cliff to the west of this point. Parts of the bunker will be
         visible from here. (about half way between Quarantine Head and
         Cannae Pt.) Parts of old ladder can be found going down cliff
         face. DO NOT USE.
         Use wire ladder or similar to descend cliff face.
Exit:    Back up the way you got down!
Wet:     May be uncomfortable on windy days with big waves.
Int:     Average
Found:   ????


Name:    Satellite.
Descrip: Bunker at South Head
Feat:    Original doors and woodwork, the smell of turps and lots of
	 hi tech arials with flashing lights on top.
Care:    Active Naval land, enter at own risk, do not touch equipment,
	 Be discreet, do late at night and in small numbers.
Cond:    Immaculate, original
Loc:     Hmas Watson, South Head.
Acc:     Park at The Gap parking at Watsons Bay, walk up to The Gap on
         the north side and follow the cliff along. Get through the
         fences and you will eventually come to a wall running along
         the cliff. Jump the fence, at this point you have 2 options:
         1: Go into the Naval car park and walk/run until you can jump
            back over the fence at a clearing, risking getting caught.
               OR
         2: In the short space you have between the fence and cliff,
            bash your way through the thick vegitation and try to be
            quiet.
         Keep going north until you come to the arials with a staircase
         under it with a wooden gate. Climb over and your in.
Exit:    There is another exit, but it is in view of sailors, so go back
         the way you came.
Wet:     No
Int:     Good
Found:   1999 Maddog


Name:    Shepherds Hill.
Descrip: WW2 Bunker with gun circle.
Feat:    Big Bunker, two backfilled staircases, mounds of earth everywhere
         chains hannging from doors, lotsa satanic graff.
Loc:     The Junction, Newcastle. Ubd: 20J07
Acc:     From the junction of High and Cliff Sts go east into carpark,
         then turn left and go down path behind houses, 20m on is the top of
         the bunker. Climb down to gun circle. Use crowie or bolties if door
         is locked.
Exit:    Only the one door.
Wet:     No
Care:    Bunker is under well-to-do houses, keep noise down.
Int:     Very good.
Found:   2000 Striker


Name:    Shepherds Hill Communications.
Descrip: Massive bunker, with gun circle and old Radar tower.
Feat:    Many rooms, corridors, gates, levels, ladders.
Loc:     The Hill, Newcastle. Ubd: 20H08
Acc:     On the northern cnr of Cliff St and The Terrace is a small
         in-use communications centre. Beyond this is the bunker.
         Entrance is down the big driveway next to this Comm. Centre,
         thru a window. Access to the tower varies, just climb in, or bust
         a padlock.
Exit:    Same as.
Int:     Excellent
Found:   1994 Melb. Clan


Name:    Signal Hill.
Descrip: Two levels of rooms under WW1 gun emplacement atop cliffs.
         Lower level is reached via shaft and ladder at back of top
         level.
Loc:     Syd 49F10 In Signal Hill Reserve, at Dunbar Head (near South
         Head).
Acc:     Via metal door furthest from old lighthouse. Someone had
         helpfully cut through the bar welded onto the door to hold it
         closed. Useful things, Oxy cutting torches! Wish I had one.
Int:     Good
ToDo:    In the same reserve, closest to the lighthouse and facing Old
         Sth Head Road, there is another bunker door, that has stairs
         leading down to a tunnel. This is also welded shut. It does NOT
         join up with the bunker that was explored (right next to it).
         How to get into this one?
Found:   1996 Bunker Boyz


Name:    (The) Squeeze
Other:   Cape Banks Bunker #1
Descrip: WWII army bunker at La Perouse.
Feat:    Long staircase going down, Very deep.
         Various rooms, backfilled staircases
         Bare rock sections.
         Machinery and fittings in lower level.
         Called The Squeeze, cos thats what you used to have to do to
         get into it.
Care:    When lower section is flooded, sediment can be stirred up while
         walking around, making it difficult to see the large hole in
         the floor. Remember their locations.
Cond:    Lots of old pipes lying around.
         Staircase covered in rubble.
         Possible exit blocked by rubbish.
Loc:     La Parouse Golf course. 338K12
Acc:     Drive or walk to La Perouse Pistol Range from Anzac Parade.
         Surface buildings are just to the south of pistol range car
         park.
         Look for something resembling a canal heading into a dune.
         This should have a half wrecked gate on it, go thru this
Exit:    Possible to chimney out of one of the vertical shafts. (ladders
         are present but do not go all the way up)
Wet:     Lower section is flooded to roof level after big rains.
Int:     Excellent.
Todo:    Hold a party in lower section. (Although I think this has
         already been done.
Note:    The entry to the stairs that lead to the lower level says High
         CO2.Gas meters and detectors have been taken down and nothing
         unusual was found.
Found:   1992 Predator


Name:    West Head.
Descrip: WWII Gun placements and pill boxes.
Feat:    Abandoned light railway down cliff, Good views.
Care:    Very steep decline down light railway, rope is provided half
         the way. Check Nat Park gate closing times!. Take a knife, Take
         a big knife.
Cond:    Satisfactory to average.
Loc:     Take a drive along Mona Vale road and enter Ku-Ring-Gai Chase
         National Park (turn off Mona Vale Rd onto Mc Carrs Ck Rd).
         Take the turn off to West Head taking note of
         the gate closing times. As you pass through the best place on
         earth (COMMODORE HEIGHTS) you will come to the end.
Acc:     Just on the left side of the Head, jump the fence and hunt
         around to you see a cutting in the rock. Follow this to the
         bottom and turn left. Fight your way through the jungle to
         find the treasure.   159 M08
Exit:    Same way in.
Wet:     No
Int:     Good
Todo:    Continue to look through the jungle as I assure you will find
         more.
Found:   1999 Maddog


End of Cave Clan KNOWN DOC.




.


