Date: Fri, 10 Oct 2003 00:10:21 +1000 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au


Dude... if I really need to get off, I'll find a way. If I don't, so what? 
I have fun getting you off, and like that you do too. I long ago gave up
caring if I got off or not, with anyone. There are loads of advantages to
not getting off... like, say, greater likelihood of getting off later 8-)

Warning: gruesome male anatomy/psychology lesson follows. 

I think it's not a reflection on you or anything, but rather on the nature
of male physiology. I think men are evolved to shoot first, ask questions
later, and if I don't get off straight away, as I often do in morning
shags, I can maintain a useful prong for long enough to get someone else
off, but that may change the physiological conditions required for me to
get off. Some women get off and dry out or get extremely sensitive (etc).

Speaking for my own rig, there's a narrow stimulatory window which one has
to be in to stay hard but _not_ shoot. If you dry out, or I leak lube too
much, I go from fucking you with a condom which stays still relative to my
dick, to fucking a condom which stays still relative to you, which doesn't
feel as good, so I go soft; not enough friction / too much lube (a
function of the lube already in the condom, the lube I leak {which comes
from the prostate gland} inside the condom, plus whatever lube you're
secreting or adding to the outer surface of the condom) means things go
soft too. And if everything's really great, I shoot and go soft.

If evolution gave a damn, we'd have *bones*.

The internal hydrostatic pressure in the corpus cavernosae (the technical
term for hardon shaft rigidity) varies in a complex way, a function of
penile diameter and the diameter of the rubber ring at the bottom of the
franger, what your and my pelvic floor musculature is doing, position,
insertion angle, how horny I am, synchrony of movement (matched thrusting
has two states, great vs. useless, and it depends on quite precise timing
to ensure that we don't move in the same direction at the same time, hence
end up *not* moving relative to each other, which is effectively the same
as being still) and to borrow from engine terminology, the bore and stroke
parameters. Hydrostatic pressure determines how hard the shaft is, and
thus wether or not you (recipient) will be getting off with it. Few women
seem to get off with a soft cock. 

The corpus spongiosum is the separate erectile compartment which makes the
penile *head* inflate; how inflated the head is determines how much
sensation it gets, and the more it gets, the less I last, since I'll
shoot. Its pressure is also a complex function, I can increase it partly
by perineal flexure, but not very well. The main difficulty one has as a
bloke is defeating its tendancy to be inflated all the time, leading to
short, fast roots which don't satisfy the woman very much. Sometimes,
there's no other way (well, none which don't involve rather more invasive
practises such as prostate massage, electric current, etc) for a bloke to
get off, tho. Some shags I have experienced had an additional problem: I'd
stab myself in the eye of my dick, with her cervix, which wasn't fun for
either of us, so I learned to keep the shaft pressure up but the head
pressure down.

But there's other stuff, which controls my horniness parameter. Noise I
generate with matresses, blankets, headboards, etc is one. External noise
(from outside The Shack) is another, depending on wether it indicates
likely proximity of spectators. How ... hmmm... held(?), appreciated,
self-confident, pissed (as in beer) I feel, are others too. How much I
have to think about wether or not the franger is still intact (since when
the inside of the franger is well lubed and if you get dry, if I am still
hard, it will feel like it isn't there, which might well mean it's torn,
which means it needs to be checked) is also another distraction, but one
which needs control since you quite reasonably find accidental pregnancy a
bloody nuisance. Can't they use kevlar? Actually these frangers are pretty
good, i reckon. If I get soft, I can usually be made usefully hard
again... try it. Wet heat on the suprapubic abdomen, and other areas, do
it well.

Given all of that, it's simpler if I worry about it than you worry about
it, since I'm in the uh, driver's seat. If I didn't worry about any of it
at all, I would be a wombat par excellence, eats roots shoots and leaves,
but that'd be less fun for you.

In the extreme dark, it is impossible to tell if a condom is concave up
(bad) or concave down (good) prior to putting it on. That is a significant
pest, since the time and thought one expends determining this correlates
closely with lost hardon pressure which you've likely just spent several
minutes generating. 

On the question of aim: penises are blinder than bats, and when covered in
latex, are totally useless for generating tactile directional correction
signals, so I am grateful for any aiming you happen to provide, though it
will be better if we agree on a common nomenclature. When I hear "up", I
think in the direction opposed to grativational down. Because horniness
reduces my brain function, I hear "left" and assume it to mean "I should
move towards my left." rather than doing the transposition which would
mean "I should move towards your left". If we can figure this out you'll
get much less random stabbing in the butt cheek, thigh, etc, and I'll get
to fuck you sooner. 8-)
