From LJerome@BigPlanet.com Sat Jun 23 15:27:37 2001
Date: Fri, 22 Jun 2001 12:18:31 -0400
From: Ilsa Jerome <LJerome@BigPlanet.com>
To: MAPS-forum@maps.org
Subject: MAPS: Form constants: A paper

I just happened to come across this while examining the "New Scientist" 
site.  Some of you who have been discussing this matter may or may not find 
this interesting.

You can find it (right now) with pictures of computer-generated form 
constants, at

www.newscientist.com

and click on "Features."

"Secrets of an Acid Head"

IN A DORM ROOM dimly lit by a lava lamp, a freshman awaits the beginning of 
his first LSD trip. Slowly, the walls come alive and begin to dance with 
colour. And then he sees whirling spirals of stars that disappear into the 
distance. A network of cobwebs that grows across the room. An infinite 
subway tube, surrounded by fluorescent lights...

Across campus, his science teachers experience their own psychedelic 
visions--but without resorting to illegal mind-altering substances. Jack 
Cowan, a mathematician and neuroscientist at the University of Chicago, has 
built a neural network so powerful it can trip out. His computer's 
hallucinations match with almost spooky accuracy the visions of acid 
trippers, shamans and seers--visions that have always been interpreted as 
revelations from a transcendental consciousness.

Now, after more than two decades, Cowan and his team think they have found 
where hallucinations really come from. And there's nothing transcendental 
about it. An LSD trip is really a journey into the brain, says Cowan. "It's 
just the innate tendency of the brain to make patterns when it goes unstable."
Cowan's goal is to find out how the brain makes sense of the visible 
world--not when we're tripping, but under ordinary circumstances. In the 
process, he may learn how it breaks down in other extraordinary conditions, 
such as migraine headaches. Hallucinations could even offer a route to the 
more profound depths of the mind, to emotions and conscious thought.

Hallucinations seem to come in an endless variety, as individual as dreams. 
So it seems improbable that they can even be categorised, never mind 
calculated by a computer. But in the 1920s, Heinrich Klüver, a 
neuroscientist at the University of Chicago, discovered they did indeed 
fall into a number of distinct categories. Klüver interviewed dozens of 
people who had taken the drug mescaline, and even took it himself. Keeping 
a commendably straight head, Klüver eventually saw patterns in the patterns.

In the earliest stages of a trip, most subjects reported seeing abstract, 
geometrical images. Other writers have noted the same thing. "The typical 
mescaline or lysergic acid experiment begins with perceptions of coloured, 
moving, living geometrical forms," wrote Aldous Huxley in 1954 in Heaven 
and hell. "In time, the pure geometry becomes concrete, and the visionary 
perceives, not patterns, but patterned things, such as carpets, coverings, 
mosaics." Klüver classified these patterns into four types or 
"form-constants": tunnels, spirals, cobwebs and honeycombs.

Unlike Huxley and Klüver, Cowan has never sampled the drugs he studies. "I 
feel bad about it," he says. "I have to rely on all these reports in the 
literature." He also hears plenty of personal accounts from students and 
others who attend his lectures. "Some people see these illusions when 
they're going to sleep or waking up," Cowan says. "People have seen them 
after taking anaesthetics. People claim to see them when they meditate, or 
have so-called near-death experiences." Cowan believes that the "tunnel of 
light" illusion commonly reported in near-death experiences is simply the 
first of Klüver's four form-constants.

Cowan was turned on to the study of hallucinations from an unexpected 
direction. In 1977 he was working on pattern formation with graduate 
student Bard Ermentrout when he stumbled across illustrations of Klüver's 
patterns. "We saw immediately that the hallucination patterns were similar 
to convection patterns," says Cowan.
The convection of hot water involves a delicate interplay of forces. When a 
pan of water is heated from below, the hot water at the bottom is more 
buoyant than the water above, and tries to rise. If the temperature 
difference is not too great, the lower layer sheds its heat by diffusion 
before it can rise very far, so the water remains stable. But at a certain 
critical temperature, diffusion is not enough to cool off the lower layer, 
so plumes of hot water start to rise. Between each pair of rising plumes, 
cold water descends, so a pattern spontaneously emerges: rolling tubes of 
water that form parallel stripes, or square or hexagonal cells. Cowan 
guessed that hallucinations must also be spontaneous patterns of activity 
produced by two competing forces--this time in the brain. One, like the 
water's buoyancy, tends to excite neurons while the other, like the 
diffusion of heat, tends to calm them down. He speculated that this could 
happen in the primary visual cortex, sometimes called V1. This is a layer 
of tissue two to three millimetres thick at the back of the brain which 
serves as the first layer of processing for images gathered by the retina.

To test their idea, Ermentrout and Cowan developed a mathematical model of 
V1 and gave it a dose of virtual LSD. Their model reflects the fact that 
each neuron tends to excite its neighbours and inhibit those a little 
farther away. Then when the eye sees a large, featureless object, like a 
big red blob of paint, every neuron in the middle of the image will be 
excited by nearby neurons and inhibited by those farther away. So it 
receives no net input from other neurons. It's the brain's way of saying, 
"There's nothing interesting happening here."

LSD upsets this balance. One of the effects of the drug is to allow neurons 
to fire when there is nothing in the visual field. Ordinarily, a neuron 
won't start firing unless the input from the retina and from neighbours 
exceeds a critical threshold. This ensures that if a neuron fires by 
mistake, it won't convince its neighbours to fire and the activity dies 
out. But drugs can lower the threshold--LSD does it by making the brainstem 
secrete less of the inhibitory chemical serotonin. If the threshold is 
lowered far enough, then excitation starts to beat inhibition, and 
spontaneous waves of activity form in the brain. It's like turning up the 
heat under the pan of water. The first patterns that form will be the same 
ones that are seen in the water: parallel stripes, checkerboards and hexagons.
So why don't LSD users see parallel stripes across their visual field? 
Because these patterns are in the cortex, not the retina, Cowan reasoned. A 
lot of cortical real estate is devoted to objects close to the centre of 
the field of vision, where our sight is sharp, while relatively little is 
used for peripheral vision. Mapped onto the cortex, an ordinary scene is 
grossly distorted: objects near the centre loom large, taking up most of 
the brain area. When you run this distortion backwards, evenly spaced 
parallel lines in the cortex appear sucked together into the centre of the 
visual field, creating the visual impression of either a spiral or a 
tunnel. The regular checkerboard and hexagon patterns turn into spiralling 
squares or hexagons.

So more than half a century after Klüver set out his form-constants, two of 
them were finally explained. LSD users see spirals and tunnels because 
those are the real-world objects that fit the patterns of neural firing in 
their cortex. Timothy Leary, the guru of "tune in, turn on, drop out" fame, 
speculated in The Psychedelic Experience, "These visions might be described 
as pure sensations of cellular and sub-cellular processes." So just as 
Leary guessed, the spaced-out brain is tuning into its own architecture.

But what about the other two form-constants, the cobweb and honeycomb 
illusions? These are both lacy, filigree patterns, while water boils in fat 
rolls, so it's obvious the convection analogy won't work here. Cowan was 
confidant that his theory would provide the framework to understand these 
hallucinations, too.
In the 1980s, it became clear that the neurons in V1 are not sensitive 
simply to the position of an image on the retina. Most of them are 
sensitive to edges, firing if they sense an edge passing through a 
particular point in the visual field but remain silent if that point is 
similar to its surroundings. These cells are arrayed in little patches 
called hypercolumns that represent a particular part of space (see Diagram, 
left). Within the hypercolumn, each neuron responds to an edge at a 
slightly different orientation.

Instead of signalling to their neighbours in the same hypercolumn, these 
neurons contact their counterparts in different columns, which represent 
similar orientations in slightly different parts of space. Then, if there 
really is an edge, neurons with the right orientation excite each other, so 
the brain is more likely to detect it.
These long-range connections seemed essential to understanding the last two 
hallucination types, but they added a new level of complexity to Cowan's 
mathematical model of the cortex. Hot water was no longer a good analogy, 
because the forces at work there--buoyancy and viscosity--are all short 
range. Now equations were needed to describe something long range and 
direction-sensitive. The maths turned out to be like those of a hot gas in 
a magnetic field.

Cowan and his graduate student Matthew Wiener programmed in these 
equations, and found many possible waveforms could result. But they 
couldn't tell which of these patterns would be the first to appear 
spontaneously. They needed someone who could combine an expert's 
understanding of quantum mechanics and neuroscience, and in 1998, Cowan 
found just the person. Paul Bressloff of Loughborough University in 
Leicestershire had trained as a specialist in quantum gravity, then taken a 
detour into neural networks. In a few months of intense work at Chicago, he 
helped Cowan and Marty Golubitsky of the University of Houston work out the 
waves of activity that should emerge spontaneously among 
orientation-sensitive cells. The results appeared earlier this year in 
Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society (vol 356, p 1).

The winning patterns were those in which the edges naturally close up into 
small square or hexagonal cells. Cowan's theory precisely reproduces 
Klüver's two missing form-constants. When the fine-edged squares and 
hexagons on the cortex are filtered back through the retinal map, they look 
like lacy cobwebs and honeycombs.

So far so good. But has Cowan done any more than confirm a wiring pattern 
for the brain that neuroscientists had already worked out? He points out 
that to understand how the brain works, we need more than wiring: we have 
to know how these circuits actually behave.
In fact, Cowan's model does hint at this. One unexpected outcome is that 
subtle changes in the wiring of the model brain can cause significant 
changes to its preferred hallucination patterns. For example, if the 
long-range connections in the model always run between edge neurons that 
represent identical orientations, would generate hallucinations resembling 
herringbone twill. Clearly our brains are not wired this way; if they were, 
who knows what effect psychedelic visions of tweed blazers might have had 
on 1960s fashion. To produce cobwebs and hexagons, we actually need the 
connections to be a little more slapdash. Perhaps the human edge- detection 
system is wired this way because it helps us spot small, closed contours.
On the other hand, the herringbone patterns may emerge if the chemical 
stimulation is changed. Perhaps the theory can explain other kinds of 
visual disturbances that were thought to be unrelated to LSD 
hallucinations, such as the auras and zigzag patterns seen by people 
suffering a migraine attack. If so, it could tell us what changes in the 
brain cause migraines, and perhaps set us on course for a cure.
Lurking in the background is the much bigger issue of where the mind comes 
from. To what extent is the mind, and all the rich variety of inner 
experiences that gives us a sense of self, simply a product of 
physiological processes in the brain? Hallucinations could be a perfect 
place to start answering this question.
The apostles of the psychedelic sixties scorned the scientific approach to 
understanding an LSD trip. "Bobbing around in this brilliant, symphonic sea 
of imagery is the remnant of the conceptual mind," Leary wrote. "On the 
endless watery turbulence of the Pacific Ocean bobs a tiny open mouth, 
shouting (between saline mouthfuls), 'Order! System! Explain all this!'" To 
appreciate a hallucination, Leary said, you have to let go of the urge to 
rationalise it.
Tom Wolfe pitched in with The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test. "The White 
Smocks liked to put it into words, like hallucination and dissociative 
phenomena. They could understand the visual skyrockets. Give them a good 
case of an ashtray turning into a Venus flytrap or eyelid movies of crystal 
cathedrals, and they could groove on that... That was swell. But don't you 
see?--the visual stuff was just the décor with LSD... The whole thing was 
... the experience ... this certain indescribable feeling ... The 
experience of the barrier between the subjective and the objective, the 
personal and the impersonal, the I and the not-I disappearing ... that 
feeling!"
Cowan makes no apologies for being one of the White Smocks. He thinks that 
the "visual skyrockets" and that "certain indescribable feeling" are part 
and parcel of the same experience. As the drug penetrates to deeper and 
deeper areas of the brain--visual layers, cognitive layers, emotional 
layers and, finally, whatever part of the brain gives us our sense of 
self-awareness--our subjective experience becomes enormously more 
complicated and richer. And yet what's going on at the cellular level may 
not be so different at each layer.
"Does that mean that everything can be observed and described?" Cowan asks. 
"I happen to believe the answer is yes. I don't think there's anything in 
the brain that science can't ultimately deal with." But the answers aren't 
going to come along tomorrow. "There are a hundred vision chips, a hundred 
sound chips. We now understand a bit more about one of the vision chips," 
he says. Cowan is already planning to look at other aspects of visual 
hallucinations, such as texture and size perception.
Journeying deeper still into the mind might not be much harder. The 
neocortex, the layer of the brain that includes V1, is the part that 
evolved most recently. It is also the part that supposedly makes humans so 
intelligent. Because it hasn't been around long, its cells are all 
structurally quite similar, even if their functions are quite different. 
"The reason this is a note for optimism," says Gary Blasdel of Harvard 
University, "is that when you really understand the operations that go on 
in a particular cortical area, it will generalise to other areas." Cowan's 
computerised visions might just be the beginning of a really cool trip.

Further reading: ·The Doors of Perception by Aldous Huxley, Flamingo (1994) 
·"Hallucinations" by R. K. Siegel, Scientific American, vol 237, p 132 (1977)


Dana Mackenzie is a mathematics and science writer based in Santa Cruz, 
California
From New Scientist magazine, 23 June 2001.





------------------
MAPS-Forum@maps.org, a member service of the Multidisciplinary Association
for Psychedelic Studies (to become a member, see www.maps.org/memsub.html).
To [un]subscribe, email the message text,
[un]subscribe maps-forum youraddress to majordomo@maps.org
List archives: www.cerebral.org/~law/Maps.html
Guidelines for authors: www.maps.org/guidelines.txt
MAPS Forum is supported by a generous grant from the Promind Foundation.
