File: maglight.txt
Date: 24Jun2k03
Cont: Documentation on failure mode of the mini-maglight: its batteries
      Remedial procedures
Auth: <predator>, Cave Clan

I have never owned a Maglight torch, but they tend to be ubiquitous in
many places. My primary problem with them is that they do not float, so if
I drop one I may be unable to retrieve it from a submerged position.
Otherwise they're a pretty good design; waterproof, rugged and with a
simple screw-focus mechanism which doesn't spoil either of the first two
aspects just mentioned.

This one had languished in the cat.org.au tech service drawer, where it
probably came in handy to someone fiddling around under the back of the
table, running network cabling in the poorly lit, cramped cavity between
the table and the wall. Like the proverbial almost-empty bottle of milk,
once this one failed to work it was dutifully returned to the drawer
unrepaired by whoever noticed this fact. I was about to discover why.

I left my Petzl at home one day, and I wanted to use the cat mini-maglight
but it appeared to be dead. My immediate response was to unscrew the base,
and drop the AA batteries out for replacement. Try as I might I could NOT
unscrew the base, though I'd seen it done countless times. So, like so 
many other broken things, I took it back to The Shed for rejuvenation. I
had no idea what a mighty epic would unfold to return the thing to a
useful state.

Once there, even a casual go with WD-40 and a pair of pliers had no
effect. So I took off the reflector stage (which turned easily, and came
loose freely, with that happy sucking sound typical of equilibrating
vacuum), clamped the knurled aluminium cylindrical body in the bench vise,
and then applied vise grips to the butt end, bringing massive leverage to
bear. It worked, of course. But it was surprising that this was necessary
to free the butt end and its inbuilt spare globe - normally this just
threads off with mild effort from a pair of fingers. Loads of crystalline
white salty dust was ground out of the threads while the vise grips
turned. 

Batteries are basically small cylinders, packed with carefully chosen
metal salts, laid out carefully so as to corrode in a particular way and
push electrons in a particular direction. When they degenerate, their
corrosive innards tend to eat their way out of the battery casing and,
still electrochemically hungry, start chewing into the device itself.

If the device casing is made of a material susceptible to redox, pH, ion
exchange or other electrochemical processes (that is, metals and alloys
thereof) then the casing will briefly become part of another rather less
structured battery (a puddle of electrolyte) with a zero-resistance
current path (itself) which will result in a hole being eaten in the
device metalwork. Battery death usually gives rise to reddish stains, or
perhaps green, indicating corroded ferrous or cuprous metal terminals,
respectively. White appears to be what colour you get when you corrode
aluminium with battery guts, and white was the powder falling out as I
removed the butt end of the torch.

With the butt end removed (banished to baste in a small dish of lubricant)
I could peer inside. Sure enough, there was the bottom end of the
last-inserted battery. It was absolutely, positively wedged in there. This
presented a problem, then, to remove it.

My first approach was to re-position the Maglight in the vise and drive a
three-inch roofing nail through the negative-end baseplate and right up
the guts of the battery, and out through its positive end, and to then
pull the thing out. 


(Note: Don't try this trick with an alkaline battery. Its electrolyte is
gas-pressurised (evolved hydrogen is stored in the battery) and corrosive
(alkaline... think lye, caustic soda) and will be sprayed onto you if you
perforate it and are not appropriately shielded. This can destroy your
corneas in an instant).

It didn't work. It basically resulted in the evisceration of the end
plates, and the pale grey-blue battery electrolyte, and also the centre
conductor, which bears the unmistakable lustre of titanium on the outside,
but underneath is merely solid brass. No help, really, since this left me
with the outer casing of the disembowelled battery still resolutely stuck
in the inner space of the maglight. 

Nor could I prise it out with a small, sharp chisel. I fed in some auger
bits of closely matching diameters, but ended up merely boring-out the
diameter of the battery casing that much more - not removing it as I had
wished. And covered my auger bits in corrosive crap which I had to clean
off later.

Despair was almost upon me - this casing had obviously bonded across its
entire outside area to the inside surface of the torch body, so there was
probably several square cm of bonding to break before I had the thing out.
It turned out that I had to employ the other battery to push its brother's
husk down and out of the torch. I took off the globe mount (DO NOT REMOVE
is stamped into it) and using the bench vise I forced a bit of dowel down
the top end of the torch, pushing the top battery down onto the remnant of
the bottom one. Both eventually gave way. The crumpled ruin of the
Eveready Titanium cell fell to the benchtop.

The top battery was fine. It still carried significant charge, 1.3V,
pretty good for a battery left in the torch for some years. The bottom one
was barely recognisable, heavily corroded. The inside of the torch case
would barely admit a nice fresh NiCd, because of the reduced internal
diameter of the torch casing due to the heavily encrusted corrosion
therein. Since it was very hard material (as aluminium salts tend to be)  
and resisted the attentions of a mere nylon toothbrush, I removed this
corrosion with a wire pipe-cleaner brush clamped in the chuck of a power
drill, and ran the drill until the inner surface of the torch casing
gleamed like eldorado's gullet.

There was also some cleanup required on the butt end. Despite its metallic
appearance, it's actually plastic, with a metal plating, and a heavily
chromed contact spring in the base. I tested for continuity and it wasn't
there. So I pulled it apart and scrubbed it down, and re-fitted the
spring. Then it conducted again - in the Maglight the casing forms the
electron-enriched part of the current path (sensible: no sacrificial
anode), so this was required to make the torch glow again. As was a
thorough cleaning of the threads, which are also part of the current path.

I greased and reassembled it and ta-da, all happy and light. Back to cat's
tech draw it goes.

However, I had not determined why the E2 Titanium Technology battery
leaked in the first place. They weren't run down since the
intact cell I removed was still delivering 1.3 Volts. I also knew the
cells weren't so old that they'd done the usual electrochemical kamikazi
routine and driven themselves flat due to room-temperature ion migration
and diffusion of the electrolytes - these things, removed in 2003, had an
expiry date of 2008. They weren't exposed to wierdo temperatures, nor had
attempts to recharge them been made. So what killed the bottom one?

You'll notice the inner diameter of a maglight is very tightly matched to
the outer diameter of your standard AA cell. If the case becomes deformed,
or the battery is very slightly bigger than the standard AA diameter, then
there there can exist a forceful mechanical contact between case and
battery. This contact gives rise to two possibilities.

The first is that the torch casing's inner metalwork, if not smooth, can
eat through the thin coat of plastic on the battery casing when the
battery is inserted for use, and hence cause the -ve outer metal of the
battery to contact the -ve inner casing of the torch body. This doesn't
matter at all if it occurs to the bottom battery (last inserted) since
this electrical connection is what the spring contact in the butt end is
there to achieve. If it happens for the top battery (first inserted) then
the bottom battery becomes heir to a short, since its +ve end is now
electrically bound to the case by virtue of being in contact with the
bottom end of the top battery. The top battery is left intact,
electrically. Perhaps a few microns thickness inner sleeving, of a tough
insulating polymer, say, polyethyleneterephthalate ester (PETE) would cure
this problem, which, due to the smooth bore of the torch is unlikely to
arise anyway.

The second possibility is more crucially stupid, and embodies a design
fault forced upon an otherwise perfectly reasonable bit of chemical
engineering, probably by marketroids - it bears all the haulmarks of their
kind of silliness. These batteries, and others of recent vintage, tend to
have affixed to their sides a thin press-button sticker-type doodad which
aside from marginally increasing the battery diameter, also_short
circuits_ the battery while pressed. Short-circuits rapidly exhaust
batteries and make them spill their corrosive guts. No, I am not joking.

The doodad warms when pressed (low resistance, high current, high
temperature, massive drain on battery) and in so doing changes a
thermochroic dye in the doodad from black to yellow; the fresher the
battery is, the hotter the doodad, the more black turns to yellow, and the
more yellow dots the button-presser sees on the side of the battery. More
yellow dots indicates more remaining charge (and rapid depletion thereof).
So you get a rough idea of the quantity of remaining charge (which used to
be) in your battery.  You pay a heavy price in remaining battery energy
for using this display: by asking how charged the battery is, you are
always returned the answer "much flatter now, thank you".

As a kid, before I bought a multimeter, I used to just lick my index
finger, press it to the +ve end of the battery, and stick my tongue on the
-ve end, I could tell if it was flat or not by the intensity of
disgustingness of the taste. (Note: do NOT attempt to use this method to
gague the available battery voltage in an automotive setting). The
indicator system could have been done with semiconductors and cost the
battery almost no energy whatsoever, despite it's pointlessness. Of course
the hidden benefit here to the battery manufacturers is that curious users
press the button, flatten their batteries faster and have to buy
replacements.

Since any device itself will tell you, by its function of lack thereof,
wether the batteries driving it are sufficiently charged, these
indicator doodadas are pointless before they leave the factory.

In addition, since these batteries are not able to be recharged, there's
no point knowing *how* charged/flat they are, since you can't remediate it
anyway (rather like looking at your watch when you're running late
doesn't make you any less late than you were before you knew how late you
were by checking your watch).

Worse, the charge indicator *produces* the exact condition that the
inquisitive user seeks to be reassured is not extant : seeking to know the
battery is not flat causes it to become flat, very rapidly.

In any case, this doodad, in a close-fitting scenario (such as when the
battery diameter is slightly larger due precisely to the presence of the
doodad itself), would tend to be pressed down upon by the torch casing,
and activated, possibly permanently, or more likely intermittently, but
activated nevertheless and draining the battery in short order; hence this
pointless accoutrement can help to destroy the device in which it is
installed, a device which, like a digital CRO, might cost thousands of
times more than the batteries do.

There is a solution, of course, to the problems caused by the indicator:
gouge the stupid fucker off the battery and patch over the casing with
tape prior to installation. 

This failure mode arises not in any aspect of the Mag Instrument Coy's
Maglight design itself, but rather in the failure of the extension of
their environment-defensive torch design philosophy to the inside of the
torch itself. Maglights are designed to withstand the outside world, but
remain vulnerable to the enemy within. I can't help myself think that
their engineers know this. Perhaps they will remediate this vulnerability
one day.


<predator>
