File: maint_day.txt

Cont: Stuff which happened on the cat maint day.
giffo, safari, andy and m'self showed up for the phun'n'games.

1) The LUS-500 UPS, which John August fixed, has been reinstated,
electrically downstream of a surge protector (though the UPS has its own
RFI filter incorporated). Off it, hangs the hub, a modem, TWS's server
(Chef), the cat web server (conway), the cat development rig (pink) and
the firewall/router/gateway (avatar/treehugger) which cat administers.
No more dependants, please, or we'll exceed the UPS's carrying capacity
during outages. ESPECIALLY NOT MONITORS!

2) the firewall has had its ethernet cards upgraded to 100 megabit/second
RTL8139 PCI items. This was to increase reliability (one of the ethernet
cards was thought to be suspect) and also data transfer speed. My take on
this is, if anyone downstream of this is gonna get significant speed
benefit from this then a) the Synoptics 10mbit/sec hub needs to be
replaced with a 100Mbit hub or switch (this will improve transfer times
between boxes on the TWS LAN) and b) alpha.net would need to be on
something faster than 2Mbit/sec DSL to <rest_of_internet>. We have no
control over b) and CAT does not stand to significantly benefit from
a) due to the alpha bandwidth limitation. 

Also, the 32Mb of RAM in the firewall was replaced and doubled, with
4x16Mb EDO items from TAD. These have all been tested ok (memtest-x86) as
far as I remember. Andy did the relevant config-file brain surgery and
will presumably document it by next year 8-)

Hopefully the firewall is more reliable. If it isn't we can dial it up and
tickle its brains.

3) Phone cable was routed to a modem feeding a newly installed serial port
on the router, and it answers the phone. Last time we looked, PAP was
brain-damaged and required fixing. So this number will not be publicised
until it is determined that placement of same is a clever idea. Giffo and
Andy were testing the rig when I left. 


Observations on conway.
-----------------------
Conway would not boot until I used tomsrtbt to e2fsck all the filesystems,
then rebooted off the harddisk as usual. Auto e2fsck on bootup due to
unclean mounting or exceeded maximal mount count was *not* automatically
followed by successful bootup - but then, it was not followed by the usual
"Control-D or root password" message. This has significant nuisance
potential. 
 


Cheeries...

<predator>




