X-From_: root@mail8.aweber.com  Sun Nov 30 23:53:46 2003
To: "guy" <guyd@zip.com.au>
From: "Dating Tips" <datingtips@doubleyourdating.com>
X-Loop: datingtips@aweber.com
X-Remote-Host: 
X-mailer: AWeber 3.2
X_Id: 45109:11-30-2003-06-58-51:guyd@zip.com.au
Date: Sun, 30 Nov 2003 07:42:24 -0400
Subject: Why VERY INTELLIGENT Men Fail With Women

Why VERY INTELLIGENT Men Fail With Women

--------------------------------------------------
To sign yourself up for this no-cost e-letter,
just visit www.doubleyourdating.com. To UN-sign
yourself up, just go to the link at the very end.
--------------------------------------------------

The Ten Reasons Why HIGHLY INTELLIGENT
Men Fail With Women... AND WHAT TO DO
ABOUT IT...

   I've been teaching men how to become more
successful with women and dating for a several
years now... and one "problem scenario" just
keeps coming up OVER AND OVER... and OVER
and OVER and OVER again...

   ...and it's really amazes me.

   I'm going to refer to it as "The Genius
Failure Paradox".

   "The Genius Failure Paradox" is the tendency
for UNUSUALLY intelligent men to have very LOW
levels of success with women and dating.

   After contemplating this particular paradox,
discussing it, and working on it for an awesome
amount of time, I'd like to share my thoughts
about it with you.

   I assume that if you've read this far, then
you see probably yourself as smarter than the
average guy.

   You know that you're a little different than
other guys.

   You probably realized at a young age that you
saw things differently, and thought differently
than others in school...

   And you've probably realized that your smart
mind gives you an advantage over others in many
areas of life...

   Your smart mind gives you a particular type
of advantage that can be very, very powerful in
life: YOU'RE USUALLY RIGHT.

   Smart people get used to being "right",
because they usually ARE right.

   And when you're RIGHT more often than others,
you can get ahead in many situations.

   But unfortunately, this smart mind of yours
can actually be WORSE than USELESS when it
comes to a key area of life:

   WOMEN AND DATING.

   By the way, I did say WORSE than useless.

   It can actually be like having a hammer when
you need to tighten a bolt. If you use the tool
you have for the job, you'll most likely make the
situation WORSE.

   Of course, it's hard for a smart guy to even
IMAGINE a situation where his smart mind could
HURT his chances for success...

   But trust me, this is one of those situations.

   So relax, open your smart mind, and let me
share with you the ten reasons why smart guys fail
with women... and what to do about it.


REASON #1: THEY'RE WRONG, BUT THEY CAN'T
OR WON'T SEE IT OR ADMIT IT.

   I mentioned that smart guys are used to being
RIGHT in most situations.

   And what do most smart guys do when they come
across a situation where they're WRONG?

   They find a new situation... one that fits
their strength. They know they'll be right next
time, so they just walk away... knowing that it
won't be long before they're right again.

   (OR they let the "problem situation" destroy
them... more on that later.)

   Well, the BITCH about being wrong when it
comes to women and dating is THERE'S NOWHERE
TO RUN AND HIDE.

   There's no quick "I'm right" around the next
corner to make you feel better.

   It only takes "failing" with a few women in
a row for a smart guy to see the pattern... and
realize that something isn't working.

   Solution? Think harder.

   A smart guy just assumes that his logic must
be good... so he just keeps thinking harder.

   But when no success comes, it really starts
to become mentally difficult.

   Accepting that you're wrong is a VERY hard
thing for a "smart guy".

   Accepting that you're not only wrong, but
you have NO CLUE WHERE TO EVEN START is
even more difficult.

   Ultimately, many smart guys come up with
the following logical conclusion:

I AM A SMART GUY, THEREFORE IF
I CAN'T FIGURE OUT HOW TO BE
SUCCESSFUL WITH WOMEN AND DATING,
THEN THE PROBLEM MUST NOT BE
SOLVABLE OR WORTH SOLVING.

   Try that on for a self-defeating idea.


REASON #2: THEY'RE BLIND AND ARROGANT.

   In short, many smart guys refuse to accept
that a good, solid, workable answer could come
from someone "dumber" than them, so they
discount any idea that comes from an "obviously
less intelligent person" before trying it.

   Let me ask you a question:

   If you were going to be walking across
Africa on foot, would you rather have your
guide be the guy on this planet with the highest
I.Q., or a caveman who lived a million years ago
that had an I.Q. of about 50... but who grew up
being chased by lions and all kinds of animals
that wanted to eat him all his life?

   It's an interesting question.

   Now, hopefully you'd like to have the guide
who isn't the smartest guy around... but who
has escaped from many, many dangerous situations
with deadly animals...

   But now let me ask you:

   If you'd like to learn how to be more
successful with women and dating, would you take
advice from a guy who isn't very intelligent,
but who knows how to attract women?

   There's something about being smart that
makes some guys unwilling to accept input, ideas,
or instruction from anyone who isn't either as
smart or smarter than them.

   Well, any SMART GUY can see the folly in this
particular approach... once it's examined closely.

   If you've been making this mistake, then you
need to STOP IT. Stop being an arrogant bastard,
and open your eyes.

   Look around.

   Learn from some "dumb" guys... and let them
teach you how to get what you REALLY want.


REASON #3: POOR SOCIAL SILLS.

   It BLOWS MY MIND how many smart guys I meet
that just don't GET IT when it comes to basic
social skills.

   It's as if they have logically reasoned that
social skills are for lower beings who need to
play games... and not worth the time it would
take to learn them.

   In fact, I believe that there are a lot of
smart guys running around this planet who don't
even have "social skills" and "be a cool guy
that people like" in their "MENTAL MODEL" of
what it could possibly take to be successful
with women and dating.

   Social skills are just that... SKILLS.

   They're not social INFORMATION.

   They're not social THEORIES.

   They're social SKILLS.

   And you don't get them by THINKING about
them. You get them by GETTING them.

   Excellent social skills are the foundation
for good communication with other humans...
and if you don't have good social skills, you
dramatically lower your chances for success
with women.


REASON #4: THEY PSYCH THEMSELVES OUT.

   Smart guys do something that fascinates
the hell out of me...

   They come up with all the reasons why
everything WON'T WORK when it comes to women
and dating.

   They actually figure out why what they
would like to do will probably fail...

   They use their amazing creative imaginations
to imagine all kinds of horrible pictures and
scenes... and then they use those imaginary
outcomes to create negative emotions... which
ultimately stop them from having success with
women and dating.

   THEY DON'T EVEN TRY.

   Now, if you've thought something through
and come up with a good reason why it would
fail, it makes sense to not do it, right?

   I mean, why would you want to do things
that are going to fail?

   It's sound logic, but HORRIBLE thinking
when it comes to the REAL WORLD... and
success with women.

   Because smart guys don't UNDERSTAND women,
and they don't UNDERSTAND what it takes to
be successful with women, they are working
with bad figures. They're wrong before they
even start figuring!

   Using your mind to come up with all the
reasons why things won't work in this area
of your life leads to ULTIMATE FAILURE.

   You must learn to overcome this habit if
you have it.


REASON #5: THEY SEEK ONLY
"INFORMATIONAL SOLUTIONS"

   What does a smart guy do when he runs into
a problem... or he needs to figure something
out?

   He looks for INFORMATION to help him solve
the problem.

   MORE INFORMATION is always the answer.

   Information is the friend of a smart guy.

   Got a strange virus on your computer? Just
hop on the internet and search for how to
eliminate it.

   Don't know how to change the alternator
on your car? No prob. Just buy the manual and
turn to page 147.

   Don't know the definition of a word? Open
up your dictionary.

   MORE INFORMATION solves the problem.

   So what do smart guys do when it comes to
overcoming a problem with women?

   They want MORE INFORMATION.

   They think the answer lies in learning just
ONE MORE TECHNIQUE... or one more magic
concept.

   Well what if there were a situation in life
where the "get more information" strategy
actually made things WORSE?

   How would you even know that it was making
things worse?

   Now, I don't want to suggest that learning
more about how to be successful with women is
a bad thing. It's not.

   But if you have a problem that is EMOTIONAL
or PHYSICAL in nature, then reading five million
theories on it probably isn't going to help you
very much.

   You need to get out in the real world and
try some stuff!

   You need to look at the REAL problem... the
ROOT of the problem.

   When it comes to women and dating, there's
a very good chance that you have MORE than
enough "information".

   Smart guys often use "more information" to
distract them from TAKING ACTION.

   I've heard this referred to as "Creative
Avoidance".

   Nod silently if you've ever figured out a
creative way to avoid facing something in your
life.

   Good, thank you.


REASON #6: THEY FOCUS ON LOGIC
INSTEAD OF EMOTION.

   NEWS JUST IN: Women don't feel ATTRACTION
for men who make them THINK.

   Women feel ATTRACTION for men who make
them FEEL.

   So what do most smart guys do when they
first meet a woman?

   EXACTLY!

   They get into a LOGICAL CONVERSATION.

   I'm shaking my head right now...

   Smart men try to engage women in LOGICAL
conversations and interactions because that's
where THEY feel comfortable... not knowing that
they're SHOOTING THELSEVES IN THE FOOT by
doing it!

   Get this: A monkey sitting at a typewriter
will type the collected works of Shakespeare
before you will make a woman feel ATTRACTION
for you by engaging her in logical conversation.

   When you start a logical conversation with a
woman you've just met, you are basically taking
out a NEON SIGN that says "I don't get it when
it comes to women" and putting it on your head.

   Typical "logical" conversations include
talking about work, family, school, and jobs...
discussing politics, religion, weather... and
anything that has to do with math, science, or
INTELLIGENCE.

   On the other hand, if you start talking to
a woman and you say "OK, so tell me something...
Why is it that all women say that they want
sweet, nice guys... but they all date sexy,
selfish bad boys?" (and then make fun of any
answer she gives) you're having an EMOTIONAL
conversation.

   If you don't know what I'm talking about,
keep reading. You need more help than I
thought.


REASON #7: THEY'RE NOT USED TO
THE CHALLENGE OF THE MOMENT.

   Smart people usually have time to THINK
about things.

   If you're taking a test, you can sit
there and work out the answers.

   If you have a math problem, you can work on
it until you've figured it out.

   If you're trying to fix something, you can
keep working on it until it's fixed.

   Smart guys are used to being able to take at
least a LITTLE bit of time to prepare and show
off their "good sides" in most situations.

   Not so with women...

   If you don't know what to do at every step
along the way, you'll be shut down very quickly.

   Women have an AMAZING "He doesn't get it"
radar system.

   Women have all kinds of subtle and ingenious
tests that they throw at men to separate the
"get its" from the "don't get its".

   And if you don't get it, then you're going to
fail one of these tests VERY quickly.

   But the worst part is that you won't ever KNOW
that you were being tested... OR that you failed.

   Smart guys aren't used to dealing with complex
EMOTIONAL and COMMUNICATION challenges in the
moment... and especially the "women and dating"
kind.

   One of they keys to becoming more successful
with women and dating is learning to handle all
of the tests that women throw at you effortlessly.

   But before you can learn how to deal with the
tests, you must first learn how to communicate
on an emotional level, how to demonstrate that
you have fundamental social skills, and how to
keep your cool in the moment.


REASON #8: THEY THINK THAT DOING
"NICE" THINGS IS THE "SMART WAY"

   OK, let me ask you a trick question:

   If I told you that you were going to have a
date with the supermodel of your choice, which
of the following would you choose as a "smart"
way of preparing:

1) Find out what her favorite type of flowers
are, and show up with a dozen of them so she
would be "wowed".

2) Learn about her favorite travel destination
so you could discuss it with her.

3) Find out what her favorite type of food is
so you could take her to dinner... and she
could see that you cared enough to choose
something that she enjoyed.

   OK, time's up. Which did you choose?

   Now, I already mentioned that this was a
TRICK question.

   The answer is NONE OF THE ABOVE.

   But WHY?

   These three options all seemed logical,
right?

   I mean, why WOULDN'T you want to show up
with her favorite flowers?

   Why WOULDN'T you want to talk about her
favorite places to travel?

   Why WOULDN'T you want to take her to eat
her favorite foods so she enjoyed herself?

   Go with me here...

   Smart guys think that they're being CLEVER
when they do things like buying a woman her
favorite flowers... and bringing them to the
FIRST DATE.

   Right?

   In their minds, they're thinking "I'm going
to be the guy who is thinking ahead... and I'm
going to show up with the flowers that I KNOW
she loves... and she's going to see them and
like me more because of it".

   Makes sense... good math, right?

   Well the one teensy-weensy mistake that
these "smart" guys make is not realizing that
it doesn't actually take a smart person to think
like this!

   In fact, ANY jackass can figure out how to
kiss a woman's ass.

   And guess what?

   WOMEN KNOW THIS!

   And guess what else?

   EVERY WUSSBAG DOES THIS STUFF.

   An intelligent guy, in his proud arrogance,
will think he's being such the charmer by using
this "thoughtful" approach...

   ...and the woman he is chasing will interpret
it as just another Wussy who's trying to
MANIPULATE her.

   Ouch. Another blow to intelligence.


MISTAKE #9: ALWAYS NEEDING TO
BE THE EXPERT

   Have you ever met a smart guy who always needed
to be "right"?

   Have you ever met someone who would actually
argue with you about something they knew nothing
about... and make a fool of themselves because
they just couldn't shut their "smart mouths"?

   Over the last few years helping guys improve
their success with women, I see this one pattern
over and over again...

   Smart guys don't like to be "beginners" at
ANYTHING.

   They don't like the idea of screwing up...
especially if others are watching.

   They want to maintain this "smart guy" image
of themselves... so they try to always be "The
Expert" at whatever they do.

   Instead of saying "Hey, you know what? I'm a
beginner at this... how do I do it? What should I
do first? What next?"... and instead of being
totally OK with screwing up, making mistakes, and
making a fool of themselves in front of others in
order to LEARN...

   ...they won't risk embarrassment, failure, or
others thinking that they're beginners... so they
wind up ultimately FAILING.

   MORE NEWS JUST IN: It's OK to be a beginner.


MISTAKE #10: THEY CAN'T DEAL
WITH FEAR AND OTHER EMOTIONS

   A smart guy's STRENGTH is his MIND.

   His WEAKNESS is often his EMOTIONS.

   Smart guys are often IMMOBILIZED by FEAR.

   Totally stopped.

   FROZEN.

   And since many smart guys aren't comfortable
dealing with things they're not good at, they
just repress or RUN away from fear.

   Many men would rather DIE in lonely isolation
than admit that they don't know how to deal with
their emotions... or, GODFORBID, ask for help!

   Hey, I went for YEARS like this.

   I know what it's like.

   But the reality is that any guy can learn to
handle and even MASTER his emotions (even fear)...
if he just takes the time and effort to learn
HOW to do it.

   If this is you, then do yourself a big favor...
take the time. Take the effort.

   Don't worry about what anyone else thinks of
you... it doesn't matter.

   What matters is you doing the things that YOU
need to do FOR YOU.

   ...I think the reason why I'm so fascinated
with "The Genius Failure Paradox" is because I
have had to struggle with all of these issues
for a lot of years of my life.

   Now, I'm not saying that I'm the smartest
guy on the planet...

   But I don't think mamma raised no fool.

   And it always bothered the hell out of me
that even though I was so good at figuring
things out, I couldn't figure WOMEN out.

   Something tells me that you know what I'm
talking about.

   Well, after beating my head against the
wall for a few years... trying all kinds of
crazy "logical" stuff... I finally got the
"bright" idea to start studying guys who were
"naturally" good with women.

   Of course, I found out that you could be
both NOT SMART, and VERY SUCCESSFUL WITH
WOMEN at the same time.

   I also learned that you can be SMART and
VERY SUCCESSFUL WITH WOMEN too.

   By carefully studying what the "naturals"
did with women... and learning how they
"thought" about the topic, I began to realize
that success with women wasn't entirely
LOGICAL.

   Much of what I learned was very tough for
me to accept... because my logical brain just
didn't want to buy into it.

   One thing I saw was guys pushing women away
from them... and having the women then chase
them in response.

   Made no sense at all.

   I saw guys tease beautiful women and make
jokes about them to their faces... and then
watched those women become "little girls" in
response... unable to maintain their composure,
and therefore unable to maintain their
manipulative power...

   It took me quite a long time, but I continued
to learn, test, and refine what I was learning
until I personally figured out how to approach
women in any situation... get any woman's number
I wanted anytime I wanted... date any type of
woman I wanted...

   ...and most importantly, GET RID of that
"empty" feeling that I carried around my whole
life because I didn't know how to attract women.

   And once I got this area of my own life
together, I decided to help other guys get
this area of THEIR lives together.

   The ultimate result of all this time, effort,
and energy is my Advanced Dating Techniques
CD/DVD Program.

   It's over 12 full hours of me personally
teaching all of my very best concepts, secrets,
and step-by-step techniques... recorded at a
special 3-day live program I did just for this
purpose.

   You not only get to learn directly from me,
but you also get to see and/or hear from many
of the guys that I learned from... because
they're guests on the program.

   As a matter of fact, the guest interviews
alone are priceless.

   If you're ready to finally get this area
of your life "figured out", then you need to
get yourself a copy of this program.

   All the details, plus some great audio
and video sample clips are here:

http://www.doubleyourdating.com/advancedseries

   And if you haven't downloaded my online
eBook "Double Your Dating", then you need
to go and do that now. You can download it
and be reading it within a few minutes from
right now. You can download it here:

http://www.doubleyourdating.com/ebook

   I'll talk to you again soon.

      Your Friend,

      David D.










--------------------------------------------------
Copyright 2003 David DeAngelo Communications
Inc., All Rights Reserved. Double Your Dating
and David DeAngelo are trademarks of David
DeAngelo Communications Inc. You agree to all of
the following by accepting and reading this: You
understand this to be an expression of opinions
and not professional advice. It is only to be
used for personal entertainment purposes. You are
solely responsible for the use of the ideas,
concepts, and content and hold David DeAngelo
Communications Inc. and all members and affiliates
harmless in any event or claim. If you are under
the age of 18, please click the link at the end
of this e-letter to stop receiving it.
--------------------------------------------------

To unsubscribe or change subscriber options visit:
http://www.aweber.com/z/r/?LKyMDJy0zKzMTAzsLEw=

