Seeing as we appear to be once again close to being able to implement IP
accounting effectively on the Mekanarchy router, and therefore be able to
have much speedier service at the IMC end of the factory, I think the
proposal to Mekanarchy should be finalised and implemented. I think when
we propose to use their service we be quite clear about what we have and
have not, and will or will not, do for them. Here's my clueless draft
proposal, feel free to mess with it, add to it, etc etc.

---------------------------------------------------------

Cat has:  

1) provided a PC, a 10Mbit/sec hub, and a bunch of ethernet cable. This
stuff belongs to CAT, but Mekanarchy are free to use it until such time as
they no longer find it useful. When Mekanarchy no longer find it useful
Cat@lyst would like the hub, PC and wiring returned to them in working
condition. If Mekanarchy breaks or destroys it, they repair or replace it
with equivalent gear. Eg: if someone accidentally angle-grinds a network
cable, they fix it or replace it. If our PC (doing the routing) dies,
catches fire, is struck by lightning (etc) CAT will replace it as soon as
can.

2) provided expertise concerning setup, such as configuring the router to
do firewalling, and enabling the router to be accessed remotely so we
don't need to bug people if we need to mess with its configuration,
and configuring dynamic DNS services for it so it can be reliably
logged into for maintenance purposes. We will also provide services
to keep the box running, for example do software upgrades (etc) on it
which will maintain its security (eg: holes in apache and ssh were fixed).

CAT will: 

3) track the amount of data it uses when IMC's LAN is hooked to the router
and pay for what IMC and CAT uses. 

Cat currently thinks Mekanarchy's Telstra ADSL deal is $70 a month, 1st
gigabyte downloaded is free, and 20c a megabyte after that. Cat thinks
that $35 a month is a good split for the monthly rental and bandwidth
allocation.

Any payments required over the 1Gb limit should be worked out on
proportion of bandwidth used.

Say in 1 month Cat used 1500Mb and Mek used 750Mb, total usage 2250Mb.  
The excess would come to 1250Mb or $250 worth at 20c a meg.

Cat (at 1000Mb over the free half-gig we get for $35 a month) would be
paying $200 of that.

Mek (at 250Mb over the half-gig free they get for $35 a month) 
would be up for $50 of it.

In such a scenario it would appear that Mek comes out the loser: they get
half their monthly 70 bucks paid for by cat/IMC but end up 50 bucks behind
for bandwith they'd not have had to pay for if they had the whole
$70/month to themselves, without cat using their link. If it turns out
that cat/IMC's collective usage is too expensive cat will look at other
options. 

*** any suggestions about how to split this bill?  *** (eg: our own DSL?)

4) Cat will at its discretion provide hardware (ethernet wire, spare
Ethernet cards) to enable other Mekanarchy machines to connect to the
router. These remain under the ownership of the cat collective and are to
eventually be returned to CAT when the people borrowing them no longer
find them useful. This does not include configuration of windows machines
to support this donated hardware.

CAT will not:

5) provide support services to machines which are not connected to the
router. Eg: if a Mekanarchy windows machine develops problems (such as, is
connected up to the LAN with an existing virus infection, or deconfigures
itself of its own accord, or catches fire/needs replacement). Mekanarchy
clients must take responsibility for the security and safety of their own
personal machines, mainly 'cos cat is pretty strapped keeping IMC running.

6) Delegate any real IP numbers to mechanarchy from the CAT IP range. The
IP numbers provided to machines on the Mekanarchy LAN are not
world-routable (they are 192.168.104 numbers).

7) Host userland web pages, FTP sites or other such services on the
router (violates Telstra DSL terms of use stuff).

8) pay for things which are not our responsibility, eg, bandwidth costs
generated by random member of the public plugging thier laptop into the
Mekanarchy LAN and sucking down huge files.

9) React well to changes in terms wherein CAT has to shoulder additional
burdens of time and expense in excess of what it initially offered to the
Mekanarchy crew, with no additional benefet accruing to CAT for doing so.


If an agreement about this rental is not reached, CAT will not use the
link, but nor will CAT withdraw the router/hub/wire since it's part of
CAT's aim to provide all this stuff for bugger-all money to people who
would otherwise be gouged for it - cat will come to its own arrangements
and simply reclaim the hardware when it's no longer useful.
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------



Cheeries...

<predator>
