File: catmins.txt
Cont: minutes of the catalyst meeting October 1 2001
Who: Don (Turella resident) Andy JJ Safari Giffeaux Len Hugh Rana
Fascis... er, fascil... eurmm ... facilitator: Andy
Minitz: predator.
Rated : R for RANT. If anyone wants to produce a summary, please do.


"This is no way to run a business...", that's because we're NOT a business.


NEXT MEETING: LOCATION AND TIME NOT DECIDED : see below:

Tentatively - was meant to be confirmed as Green Iguana Cafe, King St
Newtown, 7:30pm start, Monday 5 Nov 2001, upstairs room, eat in advance
there if you want food please.

I went around there and a) all their monday nights are booked out (though
their tuesdays look good) and b) they expect that each person using the
room eats about five bucks worth of stuff, which is effectively a room
charge of $5 per head.


Agenda Stuff 
----------------------- 

APANA: I got an email from John August concerning how APANA is going. It
mentions that they are OK for now, having cut some costs and also slightly
increased their membership fees.  Hugh mentioned that he knows where the
t0p s3cr3t file is which they generated as a HOWTO for dealing with nasty
harassment from the telesummunications industry ombud$man, but he's not
going to disclose it to be minuted here 8-) ... I dont know if the
issue Colene raised concerning wether or not cat and apana should
cooperate due to Apana's not being progressive/activist enough is or was
ever addressed; I think they can but for the time being there should be no
interdependancy until we've sorted out where cat condenses and in what
form, but we never really raised any firm action about this.

------------------------ 
------------------------

AuDomain Australia: It used to be that the .com.au domains were handed out
by MelbourneIT, and that other blah.au domains were placed in Robert Elz's
registry database for a one-off cost of $200 bux. Cat.org.au got its
domain space, 203.57.122.n in 1995. Anyway, ICANN has removed the
delegation powers from Mr Elz and MelbourneIT and these have been assigned
to an organisation called AuDomain Australia. Since this is a nonprofit
but government run, organisation, I want to find out in advance if
cat.org.au or any of the .org.au domains we do DNS for, for example,
active.org.au and indymedia.org.au, are going to attract some yecchy fee
when AuDomain Australia takes over the helm.

Bruce Tonkin emailed me and mentioned their url is

http://www.auda.org.au    (there, that's obvious isn't it!) 

Maybe we should register a DNS entry as audomain.au, ha ha only serious.

-----------------------------
-----------------------------

Cat kash: JJ estimates that we have about 300 bux left, not counting any
indymedia cash. This does not include any of the other donations that
people have made in this list of minutes, and DOES take into account some
vast pile of cash (2 grand or so) which was finally paid to TWS for our
part of their bandwidth bill up to September 9 this year. Major kudos to
Andy for sorting out the mess. Thanks Jj for paying the bill (plus GST, a
big fuck you to the Prime Minister and Treasurer for taxing non-profit
organisations). Andy mentioned that the script he wrote to calculate the
monthly bandwidth bill could be implemented to run automatically every
month so we don't get in a big hole like we just escaped from. TWS are
very happy we coughed the cash.

-----------------------------
-----------------------------

Credit Union: There exists a heretofore not known about facility whereby
if people want to send cat a cheque, they can post it, made out to
catalyst, to Unicom Credit Union, A/C number 1050397 at this address:
P.O.Box 1745 Strawberry Hills NSW 2012. This is not apparently mentioned
on the web pages anywhere so someone said they'd slap this into the web
tree on conway at some stage. If anyone thinks this is the wrong address
or POB number, please tell catkore@cat.org.au

-----------------------------
-----------------------------

Donations: Matthew Davidson and Praccus ('Pod, Newcastle) has sorted out
the DNS entries and web hosting and mail list stuff for the East Timor
group account "etccp" (thank 'em and bank 'em, $100); Safa mentioned that
Sonia from Dykes on Bikes has arranged a cheque to pay cat $100 for DNS
and webpage hosting for DOB. Maybe this should be sent to the Strawberry
Hills PO Box address.


-----------------------------
-----------------------------

GeekWeek Camp : This has been kicked around as an idea for a while, and
there's more thoughts on it now that the context of the move has started
to sort itself out a bit more; not entirely though, since "Where Should
Cat Be" was covered next in the agenda. 

The idea that it could happen in december was kicked around a bit but I
didnt hear anyone come up with a firm date. Personally I think December is
insane enough anyway with people doing Christ-mass-exodus from the city to
parental places, etc. Anyway; Here, in no particular order, is a list of
the ideas that came up about it:

a) maffew originally thought of this camp, the main reason was to skill-up
a lot of people in cat so uebergeeks like Maffew and Andy were not single
points of failure for the organisation.

b) this means if single irreplacable geeks go away they do in fact become
replacable, in the sense that other people know how to do their stuff:

c) Skills: PHP, Postgres, DNS, System installs, administration (adding
users, upgrading things with apt-get, managing mail lists), open-source
tools, installing indymedia on a box, setting up mailmain, cron, shell
scripting, etc etc. Need to build a well-structured curriculum (but with 
none of the yechhy connotations of school, I think I can add).

d) jj mentions that the main objective is probably to consolidate cat
and deal with cat's needs first. If cat stays alive then other kittens can
be started... cat had to be functional so that active and indymedia could
be generated.

e) It could be done at Turella, sort of a geek-housewarming; It could also
be done at the Pod in newcastle or at the centre at Minto, though that
would require a lot of hardware-lugging and would require that we set up a
local server in advance.

f) Safa has noticed some people come to cat really keen to learn HTML or
want to immediately get involved in some job, but then we don't give them
anything to do.

g) someone (was it Hugh) suggested it should be built specifically to
attract geek admin from community groups, non-profity little orgs  
and community-oriented NGO's.

h) Don mentioned that it all sounded pretty advanced to him and might be
better if some of the GeekWeek was aimed at an introductory level, doing
things like simple graphics stuff and basic web page stuff.

i) I mentioned that doing workshops actually showing people how to
assemble boxes from a pile of parts has the associated problem that the
boxes in question might still be in a pile of parts at the end of such a
workshop and hence not usable for other workshops requiring a bunch o'
functioning boxes, so maybe if a box-building session was done it would
need to be on parts/boxes which werent expected to be needed for the
software stuff anyway.

Giffeaux suggested that there be a discussion of the concepts we'd like to
use in the geekfest, preferably in face-2-face mode or slapped up on
catkore as a thread where anyone can chip in. I hope the above list helps
to fertilise the discussion a bit, I dont think anything was really
resolved.


-----------------------------
-----------------------------

Should Cat Be At Turella?

It was kind of a default decision that Cat went to Turella.  We are sort
of anchored here by the pile of junk we bring with us, but we don't need
to be there, there's little stopping us from being somewhere else.

In some senses, as JJ pointed out, having cat and IMC at more than one
spot would actually be a duplication of effort and expense. Methinks it's
possibility that IMC could stand on its own and pay for itself at
Turella if cat wanted to go elsewhere, but that's just my heretical
murmurings and would need further discussion from IMC and cat.

Don mentioned that he was at the roof and that you can see all the way to
bondi junction. Well and good for microwave, provided we could find
someone else to accept an aerial on their roof, which was the main
stumbling block last time.


Main stuff on this thread is that Safari has problems using the public
transport system along for the same reasons Colene does; first it means
they have to use the trains at night and dont feel safe doing so, second
it isn't conveniently placed near where they or many of the collective
live. The usual stuff about lack of consultation was raised; suffice it to
say that no, Turella isn't optimal to everyone for whatever reasons. Then
again the Lord St warehouse wasn't decided upon on the basis of how
convenient it was to everyone either, and nor were the previous locations
cat has been located at : Emu on Enmore Road; Black Rose on King St; TWS
in a secured building in Surry Hills. Cat went there because it gave cat
the means to do what cat does, namely, cheaply run some servers for
community net activism which is the central thing that we do. I think it
can be plainly stated that regardless where cat is it will inconvenience
some of us somehow. The walls might be beige... grrr....

That aside, it doesnt leave us with no options to accomodate people who do
have problems getting to the cat premises. Jj mentions that face2face
meetings are important and it helps to have some geek hardware in the
room, but the main problem appears to be meetings and this is because they
happen at night and people tend to have to leave late. There are several
possible answers:

1) have the meetings during the daytime on the weekend?
2) have the meetings someplace else within easy reach of everyone?
3) carpool; people who want transport can arrange it with other cats 
4) Don suggested unofficially that it might be possible to arrange that
   a few people can have a space to sleep overnight so they can get public
   transport the following morning in daylight and not risk night travel

While we need to be near the machines to do stuff which actually requires
us to be near machines (generally during the daytime)  like burn CDROMs or
digitise video or whatever, the monthly meeting place doesn't have to be
where the pooters are since cat has a laptop and we can arrange to bring
it and use it to take the minutes (etc); anyone else can bring one along
if they want to. Net access isn't usually crucial to the meetings.

A few possible cat venues present themselves: Black Rose on Regent St
(which was considered since Black Rose already has a cat box there but the
premises apparently sucks), Burland Hall (which we still have not
investigated and we might not anyway) or the Newtown neighborhood
centre... Safa raised the possibility that she might actually rent a
shopfront to operate cat in but that will happen when we really need it
and iff a suitably cheap and close shopfront presents itself.

Gif suggested we could actually meet at the TWS room in Surry Hills (which
has a cat server in it and also other machines which can be used as
terminals if people want (wintel boxes) except there's problems with the
dude who runs the building not providing enough access cards to people,
and there's the additional problem that there's no stair access due to
fire regulations so claustrophobic members are compelled to use lifts.

We finally decided on The Green Iguana but for reasons stated above that
cannot happen on monday nights and we can be expect to be slugged for $
when we do use it. 

So... if people have other suggestions, I'm all ears. I reckon if we made
it to a cat meeting at Turella once we can do it again but might organise
a carpool or arrange to travel in numbers on trains or something.

Sydney. What a fun, friendly city.


-----------------------------
-----------------------------

Fone Lines and Net Axs at Turella

Questions: should cat have a dialup modem and if so where? The general
answer was that we should still have a dialup modem since there's no
terms-of-use crap associated with a phone line we pay for; it could be
useful to dial into a server to fix it if its ethernet is down; 

gif mentioned that for the annual cost of cat running a dialup service
we could farm that whole thing out to a bunch of cheap telstra bigpong
accounts and people could dial them and use cat remotely that way; It
costs $190 to install a line and for us $13/month to run it.

JJ reckons we can get DSL at Turella if we want it and can get a static IP
number, unlimited download, 256kbit/sec and can run a server on it; Andy
reckons there's a crew mentioned in an advert on the back of InternetAu
mag which does this.

Len came out with the POTENTIALLY VERY IMPORTANT suggestion that telstra
do a service where you can have an RENT-FREE incoming-only phone line for
the cost of installation. This would be *great* for dialup. Len's gonna
tell us what the story is in a couple of days.

The possibilty of parallel phone lies was discussed; telstra do something
called Home Highway or Business Highway (perhaps they allude here to the
tollways)  which as far as I can tell uses modem links; Looks pretty dear,
see http://www.telstra.com.au/onramp/pricing.htm

Cat tried paralleled modems last year from a linux box to a BSD box at
viper.net.au (Mark Russell's ISP) but it didn't work for reasons related
to what OS we were using.

-----------------------------
-----------------------------

Linux Books : Jj via his infiltration agent into the Australian
Consolidated Press empire has liberated two more Linux RedHat 7.2 install
cds, plus the booklets which go with them which are very good. Yipeeza.

-----------------------------
-----------------------------

"What Cat Does" page: Nowhere in the cat pages does it say anything about
what the server actually is set up to do: dns, web hosting, ftp, mail,
finger, news, php, postgres, mirroring, etc. We should have a page which
says what our server actually does, Safa and Hugh say they'll write one,
which is basically a snapshot of conway's process table entries, slapped
between two <pre> tags and pasted somewhere on the cat pages.

Also: MRTG on conway is lying about Ollie's traffic stats; ollie sends
nothing through eth0 because at the moment nothings plugged into
eth0. Needs fixing sometime.

-----------------------------
-----------------------------

Didge, security : Currently the only things between our prize video and
CD-burning grunt box Didge and those who would steal it is thin sheetmetal
and a couple of screws. Arrangements should be made to chain the box to
the table (my preference is the commercially available large-diameter
heavy washer thingies which actually attach it to the tabletop and the
padlock would go through a hole drilled in the tabletop). I still have the
key to Didge's padlock if anyone wants to take this job on and can't
access any other keys.

-----------------------------
-----------------------------

laptop Mac : andy's sister is looking for one, and is prepared to pay for
it; the suggestion currently is that it be loaned to her and if she likes
it then she pays for it.


-----------------------------
-----------------------------

Library: Hugh and Safa have arranged to lug the library over to Turella on
tues in time for the next IMC meeting. Safa's still working hard on the
database code which will enable there to be a web interface to the library
catalog to keep track of what's in and what is out and who has what. I
dont think this implies that we dont trust each other, it's just that we
know where the resources are if we need them back.


-----------------------------
-----------------------------

Skill Pool : There is nowhere on cat where there is a list of skills which
cat members are attributed with, like, who can do PHP, who can do an
install of Linux on a box, who knows how to restart the dialup link if it
craps out. Some people think this is a good idea, so maybe we should throw
one together. I wonder if there isnt an engine around to do that already,
like the one which people fill in for Indymedia and then it generates a
list of what they can do. Ps: there are evil rumours about that I know
something about computers. This is bollocks and should be ignored. I can
use a screwdriver and that uh, thing you use to hit nails with.

-----------------------------
------------------------------

SMS: continuing on from the mention of this in the last minutes: Giffeaux
(which, spelt this way, is much less an ocker nickname than giffo!) is
trying to configure Ollie and Conway to watch each other; they ping each
other each 15 minutes (send an internet packet and wait for it to return)
and if either doesn't respond, the other sends a message to Giffo (and
whoever else wants responsibility) via mobile phone short message service
(SMS) so we can go sort the distressed cat box out and put it back into
service. 

Gif has made lots of progress on the PHP code to make the system work but
isn't quite there and is enlisting Andy to complete the implementation of
a cron-driven shell script. Since SMS messages cost 22 cents and are sold
in blocks of 100 cat agreed to cough up $22 bucks to pay for messages for
this service. I said that there need to be some things kept in mind about
the system: 1) if one box goes down the other box doesn't keep sending
"box n.n.n.n is offline" messages every time the script is funcitonal
(will chew through the SMS money rapidly) and 2) if the boxes between
ollie and conway blow out, say, telstra's routers crash or something, then
the SMS should not page us because our boxes are actually OK. The criteria
in this case is that iff (if and only if) we can traceroute all the way to
the box next in line to ollie or conway then the SMS should page us since
we know that none of the machines in between our two are sick.
Treehugger's occasional crashing is a good example, except we're usually
the people required to fix that too.


---------------------------------
---------------------------------

laptop Macs : Andy's sister mentioned that she'd be interested in using
one of the ancient Mac laptops which we have inherited, and she is
prepared to pay for ownership thereof. It was decided (if I recall
correctly which isn't often) that we should loan it to her, and if she
likes it then she can contrib to us for it. Len reckons that since they're
still usuable we shouldn't toss them, I tend to agree, though I'm totally
unfamiliar with them and I think their remediation should be left to the
Mac-familiar people (i.e. Len). Usual religious flame war between macs and
PCs erupted and was quenched when I pointed out that it didn't matter
since Linux can be run on both of them 8-) : I recommend Neal Stevenson's
rant "In the beginning there was the command line" which is available
online for perusal.

--------------------------
--------------------------

Space needs for IMC if at Turella : We wandered around and decided that
there was some requirement for some space and the rooms on the whiteboard
marked "IMC" "STORAGE" and "ARCHIVE" we will hopefully get to
ourselves. We note that most of the access problems which came with the
IMC space at Lord St had to do with the location of the front door right
next to it, and that these problems go away when the new rooms are
appropriately partitioned and secured (etc). 

Cat would appreciate some small space to operate a server and do the
machine-assembly stuff which we did in the old catspace but I don't know
if that space was allocated.

There was also the problem that the desks in some of the rooms were too
high to use when sitting in fromt of a poota. This could be remediated by 
ripping the doors off, removing the drawers and placing a CHEP (or
equivalent) packing pallet in front of the desks so the desk height
relative to the user is comfie (also means the benches don't need to be 
ripped off the wall and lowered, but hey if you want to do that, you're
welcome).


--------------------------
--------------------------

If you think you're tired so am I!

--------------------------
--------------------------

Pred: I have zuul2 and I was trying to slap redhat 7.1 on it and it wont
fit into a 540Mb harddrive.

Also: I might be totally occupied with other stuff until march next year,
so I can't say I'll be particpating in much cat stuff until then. Sorry
about that.

Cheeries...



<predator>




