File: the cat minutes
Date: 7 Jan 2002
Keystrokes, one-eyed bigoted commentry and puerile ranting by: <pred>
Present: andy, giffo, reha, safa, len, hugh, <pred>, jj, static
Absent: Colene

Stuff:-

Catskills 
Bux
Vision
Community Web Developer Forum
Space Beautification
Sudo allocation
Security
To-do mentoring
SPANNR
Virtual Receptionist
Saveforests website
alpha.net
treehuggers/conway maint
linuxconf
foe bandwidth
Conway bandwidth bill minimisation
womenandearth
membership database
brisbane indymedia
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

----------------------------------
Issues which came out of catskills:
----------------------------------
Speed of connection sucked: so, use ollie as local server.

Debian/GUI issues: Was pretty well thrashed out on the list. Maffew
posted some good stuff about how to get lo-fat desktops.

Speed of machines: want more RAM. Might be able to be acquired from
computerbank. 72pin, 32Mb or 16Mb matched pairs, though 8Mb if that's all
that's available. 

800 x 600: discussed ad nauseum on the catgeek listserv. Oogh. Pred thinks
we try some of the nice PCI vid cards we have. Pred thinks he will find
two weeks of fighting with xf86config less than invigorating.

Money: Traking donations was a nightmare, so we should insist these be
donated  in advance and in something immediately liquid. See also Bux
section.

Timetables: 

It was sad that students didn't show up, nor our star import guru. The
logistics were a pig to do. Maybe should be more automated... HTML form
feeding a database, and the page uses PHP to fill itself.

As for the timetable for the course itself, Safa thought it went for too
long and was pitched a bit over the level she was expecting so small
digestable snippets are better. People who did 1 to 3 courses liked it, it
didn't overload them. Reha suggested people attending beginner courses
would be out of their league a bit in the geek courses, so one week of
beginner might then one week of geek stuff might be better.

Giff reckons the key is to organise small workshops, ten people, and smear
the organisation across two people. Andy reckons three-day geek courses
would be good. The presentations should maybe have more and simpler
examples. For revision: maybe the notes chould be distro'd on CD so people
can take them with them later... can't assume a web connection for people.

The general proposal is 6 workshops, 10 people each, on long weekends;
it's important not to burn out the teachers. It will provide reliability
if a main teacher and a tutor who also knows the stuff and another person
who can be a helper for the logisitics. Jj reckons he's happy to help in
this latter area. Gif reckons the people who get to do these courses
super-cheap should make some firm committment to doing some cat stuff.

Colene has emailed all the people who did the course and asked them for
feedback. Some of the feedback has been very detailed and encouraging.

Room layout: data projector for next time would be good. Knocking the
noise out of the aircon (needs some bolts installed in specific places),
and draining its condensate (prevent pond of water on floor) would
help. Lighting for the whiteboard could be better (as I recall it
was, initially, till Andy broke the light, then I stole it for the
hardware course). Cable layout on floor is bad but is remediable.. use
surplus racking from the service floor. 

Reha raised the point about analysing a database concerning people who do
the course. This really should be integrated with things like the member
database, the library and so on.

Me, personally, I think it was pretty good of us to pull this whole
logistical show together. Top effort to all concerned.
---------------------

----
Bux:
----
JJ: current balance for cat.org.au is $277 after the last fone bill which
was $393. We think this should be more so we're presumably waiting for it
to clear or something. There is also a TWS/Dave Wanless contra thingie
going on. Hugh's kindly offered to slap the catskills numbers around. Jj
mentioned the possibility that his information is wrong, so he'll update
to catgeek/catkore.

Andy took $450 out of the IMC and put it into Cat for December up 
till now. Marion (from TWS) and Andy are working that out. This is partly
for the install of one phone line and also for IMC's bandwidth charges.
(can someone tell us what IMC does these days? I'm still itching to cut
two videotapes to CD-ROM)

On conway.cat.org.au, the IP-accounting built into the kernel (a kernel by
the way is the guts of an Operating System, and is the program which
enables the CPU and peripherals and RAM to all talk to each other, etc),
which figures out how much we owe TWS, became braindamaged when the kernel
had a security-improvement patch applied. This situation persisted for 78
days and This was fixed on Wed 9th - andy compiled the kernel in advance
(big time-saver, thanks andy! - geek process documented in catgeek) and
pred installed it. IP accounting is now fixed, yay andy, so now we know
accurately how much we need to pay TWS.

Giffo "it might sound really corporate" reckons we should have some kind
of a basic budget so we can figure out how much we do actually need to
allocate in advance for new hardware, bandwidth bills. Jj is the treasurer
and his usual role is to get mail and pay bills and keep an eye on what
the accounts are. Sophia thinks it's something she's good at and reckons
she might weigh in on this.

IMAO, budgets are one of those tools which, although intrinsically
neutral, are sometimes used to enrich/impoverish people unfairly, and
further they attract the observation of the Central Scrutinizer. Apply,
but apply with caution, I think. When cat has a bigger income than I do
per year, I'll get a real job.

----------
Vision
------------

Gif reckons he'd like to run more PHP courses, including one at the pod.

Hugh is still concerned, as I am, about the increasing security hassles
small ISPs face, and also that cat isn't doing enough social (not
necessarily geeky) stuff. Some fun ideas were kicked around about the
latter (beige-eradication days, B.Y.O. paint, uh... pebblecrete, etc)
though how to address the former might not become clear for a while yet.

Safa likes that CAT can host pages for small community groups, and reckons
that some sort of more concerted effort should be made for that, whatever
the method, and also notes that active.org.au needs attention.

Jj is totally amazed. "I think the new year happens to me, I don't happen
to it."

Andy's more interested in making the networking structure more resilient
and octopuss-like. Peer-peer stuff, and bandwidth where we own the
backbone. This ties in with some of what UWB (Ultra Wide Band) technology
might be able to do (like wireless but bigger bandwidth).


-------------------------------
Community web developer forums.
-------------------------------

Giffo is interested in bringing activist web developers together - this is
a good thing. Helena (absent tonight) and Danny Yee were kicking this idea
around too. Not so much the hardcore geek stuff but rather knowing what
sort of resorces and helpers are out there. Where? When? Who to invite?
Should a website be thrown together for this?

---------------------
Space beautification
---------------------
One of the residents, Jim, is right into this - he designs and builds
stages for theatrical plays, and such. So he's looking at how to make the
place more user-friendly... where to run cables, how to configure desks,
etc. Given Jim's amazing work in the lounge room this is likely to be
a major improvement. Watch this space.

---------------------------------
Sudo-chopping on ollie and conway
---------------------------------

We have several people with sudo (super-user privelages under one's own
password).

What warrants, and who should have sudo access? Generally one wants sudo
access if one does things like kernel recompilation, OS/software
installs/upgrades, hardware guts replacement, restarting of stuck
machines, fixing people up who have forgotten what their password is,
etc. Other than that it shouldn't be handed out - sudo powers are mostly
equivalent to root access. 

The bestowment of sudo powers should probably be the responsibility of
the people who already have sudo powers to discuss in advance with the
potential sudoer - people with sudo can be presumed to understand the
responsibilities it brings.

Yes, we understand it's cool to tell your geek friends that you have
superuser powers on a class C network, but Sudo powers bring with them
responsibility to actually _do_ stuff. It's logged so we can figure out
who sudo's what.

Maybe prospective sudo people need to be on catgeek and met with in
face-to-face mode before being given sudo clearance.

Steen and Tachy reckon they don't need it. Cam Shorter wrote that he would
like to keep sudo access but as far as I know he didn't specify why he
needs it (he manages *.shorter.net thru ollie, I think).

Maybe there needs to be a kind of functionally restricted list of sudo
powers for newbies, so they can do stuff like add new users, etc, but not
critically important stuff like say, modify the routing tables or unmount
harddisks. We're looking to configure a sudo group so newbie people can
still do significant stuff but not be stuck down to an access heirarchy
based on the access permission architecture of Unix. We're not sure what
permissions would be appropriate for newbie people... so the problem is
not so much assigning sudo but how unrestricted their sudo powers should
be. And: there's no auto-stale on the sudoers list. Suggestions welcomed.


-------------------
security
-------------------

Stronger passwords: Will be automatically checked and users with
inadequate ones notified (we use john the ripper). This gets a groan from
everyone, we all hate to have to remember new passwords but the main
problem I used to have was thinking of new ones. What I generally do when
I want a new password is stick numeric fragments into existing words. If I
think of a word like bitumen, that's amenable to a dictionary attack, but
not if I stick numbers in it, for example bit123umen is not hard to think
up or hard to remember. If you need to change it later, the same general
layout can be preserved, for example, you could have a mnemonically or
phonetically similar password to the previous one but one which is
nevertheless significantly different: bitch0men, tar321mac or gra999vel or
dirt000road. Variations on a theme are good - pizza77, pickle41,
r0ckmell0n; s!llyb!lly, s00perd00per, y@dd@y@dd@.

Passphrases are much better. Fragments from everyday speech are adequate -
"leave my screwdriver" "pickle your brain" "drop the soap" "strangle 50
goldfish" - whatever is weird enough to stick in your mind and long enough
to represent a hassle for automated cracking.

There's probably good documents out there about how to think these
up. Note that programs exist which assign passwords to you but these tend
to be ugly e.g:"x_!9k%3oU*a" and end up being written down which is bad.

----------------
to-do mentoring
----------------
saf and andy reckon there's lots of little jobs which people want to be
able to do but dunno how (modifying messages on lists which the
original poster wants anonymised, etc). Gif reckons it would be good to
have a skills-audit or a web page where people who know how to do stuff
can write about that. In addition there needs to be some list of stuff
to-be-done made available.

------------------
SPANNR
----------------
is a group working against the construction of another nuke reactor in
Lucas Heights. They'd like a web page and some other stuff. JJ reckons
they're a good crew and Leah Mason apparently has some activist cred
amongst the cat crew, so we think this is a good idea.

-----------------
virtual receptionist
-----------------
should really move to mailman. Webkids will be harassed about this.


-------------------
saveforests website
-------------------
was an emergency lashup apparently because Jack Thomspon (of Man from
Snowy Liver fame) was going on about not wanting to use the word vote in
the ad campaign.

Liam from alpha.net handed out the domainname. It is hosted on alpha.net
and needs to hosted on ollie. Details about where it redirects to, and
what it is called exactly, eluded me.

----------
alpha deal.
-----------
Reckons the price has gone down from 19 to 15 cents a meg. Good!

Dialup accounts: Alpha, who gave cat.org.au a /4 (203.53.14.41-46)  on
which to host conway.cat.org.au, is offering the following: for each
person cat directs to alpha for a dialup connection (who then gets a
$24.95 dialup account with alpha) cat gets $2 per month off bandwidth per
month (for how long, I cannot remember).

Are we happy to recommend this corporate crew? Methinks yes, insofar as
they've treated us well and are not as greedy as telstra and cat is not
really set up to have lots of dialup users. The astoundingly knowledgable
Liam's also apparently considering doing some cat courses, which is pretty
cool.

Liam discussed with Gif, Andy and <pred> about offering cat a better deal
in terms of a cheap permanent modem link. He's so honest about it he made
the suggestion that we just install a phone line at TWS and ollie be
configured to dial into conway's spare serial port. TWS has a live, but
mostly unused phone line, which cat can take over if TWS permits it.
Gif's post yesterday pretty well summed it up so I won't repeat it here. 


-------------------------
treehuggerz/conway maint
--------------------------

the TWS gateway, treehuggers, was strangely reliable for the last 78
days. Apparently Liam came down and did brain surgery on it in December. 

During our chat with Liam, he mentioned that cat is welcome to take over
the responsibility for maintaining that box (ancient Pent-166). Since we
were unsure about the reliability of one of the NICs in the treehuggers
box, I opened it up, brushed out a *lot* of dust, swapped out the suspect
RTL8029 nic for a ... uh, what was it, Intel eepro we had unused inside
our intending development server Pink, went to start it up and whammo, it
was strangely dead. Shit! So we yanked the harddisk out of treehuggers,
slapped it into Pink, and booted it. It goes, and thanks to some routing
table mods from Andy, it routes correctly, thank heavens (are these
permanent, and are the kudzu-insmods for the new NIC permanent too?) I am
not sure why treehuggers crapped out, I must have disturbed some crucial
dust or something.

Andy's looking to replace it with a debian rig, equivalently configured,
for ease of long-term maintenance. 

(Conway, incidentally, had its annual power-down and dust-removal on
wednesday, except it came up OK afterwards).

Giff said he'd lug the box around to catspace sometime, so I can find out
which magic smoke I let out.


---------------
linuxconf
---------------

It's in Brisbane, costs $180 to go. Andy's going. Should Cat sponsor
someone to go up there? Maybe he should hook up with the Brissie indymedia
people when he's up there.

-------------
foe netlink
-------------

FOE should join cat. Standard group donation rate's $50 down, $20 per
month usually, forget about the bandwidth. They have been assigned
203.57.122.81. Would be nice if cat could give reciepts since FOE is a
reciept-driven org.

Maybe it's worth traking some of the bandwidth usage. Ollie wants its
kernel recompiled to support this feature in much the same way as 

Hugh points out that there was no contra deal here so we're not apparently
required to provide bandwidth to people on the LAN in this building. We
think 

---------------------
bandwidth on conway
---------------------

It might be a good idea if we looked at the biggest usage on conway, and
mirror it off cat to cut our bandwidth bill. Maybe norrie doesn't know
that her site drags down a third of our bandwidth. Redirection as we
currently do for Jj's mpfree site is implemented using apache and works
well, and will operate transparently. Hugh to chat to norrie concerning
this redirection. The list archives can also be archived off-cat.



---------------
womenandearth
---------------

is doing a women's festival up-the-mountains and has sent us some money
for a virtal domain and webpages (safa's making) and so-on. $100 was
donated to us. Did we do the new DNS zone file for this org if they wanted
one?

--------------------
Membership database
--------------------

dobsydney and moz have been added to the membership database but there's
something cacky in the php underpinning the membership database frontend,
andy's. 

Delete day 2000 was pretty good. We give them a month warning in
advance, tar up their files for a year and delete after that. Might be
time to email people who exhibit donation-lag.


--------------------
Brisbane indymedia
--------------------

There's some rumour about this having been sorted out via praccus but I
have no_clue.


-------------------
Next meeting date:
-----------------

You don't think I'd pay attention to anything important like that, do you?
I mess it up so often it'd be simpler if someone else posted it anyway. So
if you know, please do tell.



Cheeries...

<predator>
