From predator@cat.org.au Wed May 31 03:50:43 2000
Date: Wed, 31 May 2000 03:47:28 +1000 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: green seen <greenseen@hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: Molecular genetics 101 <very long>

Note: I consider my "grabs" to be GPL Copyleft. Available for nonprofit
distribution, I retain ownership, not to be copyrighted, and not to be
used by for-profit corporate entities.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Q: what is a GMO?

A: a GMO (genetically modified organism) is any lifeform which has had its
   genetic material -DNA - deliberately changed by humans so as to
   accentuate or minimise particular aspects of a living organism, usually
   for commercial reasons but also sometimes for research reasons.


Q: what is DNA?

A: dna is short for deoxy ribose nucleic acid. In each cell of a living
   thing you will find a long, long strand of this stuff, which is a 
   sequence of sugar molecules and phosphate groups. DNA strands usually
   exist as pairs of these strands, wound around each other like a spiral.

   DNA stores the program that tells the cell how to make proteins which
   can do certain necessary tasks to keep the cell alive and to enable it
   to do particular jobs, like make new cells or repair damage. 

   What enables DNA to store this information is the sequence of molecules
   called bases which are attached to the side of the DNA. Bases on one 
   strand pair up with bases on the oother strand. 

   Particular sequences of DNA encode what are called genes. 


A: How many DNA bases are there in a typical organism?

A: It depends, and varies widely. To encode a bacteria you might need a
   few hundred thousand base pairs. Brewers yeast has about a million
   bases. A human usually has about thirty-two thousand million. Some 
   plants have more than this. 


Q: What is a gene?

A: a gene is a sequence of DNA which stores the construction information
   for the manufacture of a particular protein. A given organism will
   have some genes in its DNA which are not present in other organisms,
   but also have genes which are similar to genes in other organisms.


Q: how many genes does a human have?

A: about 30,000. Not all of them are switched on and being used to  
   instruct the manufacture of proteins all the time. Some genes are
   small, and others are large. A lot of the DNA we have does things like
   determine which genes are turned on and how much and when they are
   meant to be turned off, etc - a lot of regulatory functions not
   directly involving protein manufacture.



Q: What is a protein?

A: A protein is a substance which is made according to the specifications
   of one gene stored in the DNA. For each protein there are a range of
   possible variants (alleles) of a given gene, and small changes can have
   large effects on the correct function of the protein.
   
   All proteins are made of pretty much the same 20 subcomponents.
   The order in which these subcomponents are strung together differs. The
   subcomponents are called amino acids, and they are common to all
   carbon-based biological systems that we know about.

   Different proteins have different sequences, so they are shaped
   differently and can do different structural or chemical tasks.
   Many of the proteins which do certain jobs are called enzymes and they
   enable the chemistry of life to operate. Some proteins dont do any
   chemistry that we know about, and mainly perform a structural role,
   like stopping your skin from being saggy.    

   Your hair is made of a protein called keratin. Your blood is red
   because of a protein called haemoglobin. People who have a gut enzyme
   called lactase can digest milk with lactose in it. Your tendons are
   full of a protein called collagen. Some proteins do special jobs like
   repair DNA damage. Some, like insulin, send signals from one part of
   the body to another. Most enzymes have ludicrous names... the one
   most directly responsible for incorporating carbon dioxide into
   plant sugars is called ribulose-1,6-bisphosphate carboxylase. Egg
   white is full of a gooey clear protein called albumin. Some proteins
   do amazingly specific, highly complex jobs, some of these jobs involve
   specific manipulation of subatomic particles, like hydrogen ions, or
   electrons. Usually they do tasks at the molecular level, moving whole
   atoms or groups of atoms arranged in a specific way. They are pretty
   remarkable things, actually. 


Q: What is genetic engineering?

A: DNA occurs in animals, plants, fungi, bacteria, and even viruses
   (which aren't actually alive). Since DNA is the same across almost all
   living things, and they all encode proteins the same way in DNA
   sequences, DNA code from one organism will theoretically do the 
   same thing when put into another organism and modify the biochemical
   behaviour of the recipient.
  
   Genetic engineers extract the DNA of some organism and 
   analyse it to figure out its sequence and then deduce things about
   that sequence and the function of the protein it encodes. 

   Some genetic engineers are paid to take DNA from certain organisms and
   splice it into the DNA code of organisms where it was not originally.
   Or, they take the original DNA and modify it so it makes a protein
   which works differently.

   The tools used for genetic engineering are usually proteins derived
   from bacteria, which can do things like assemble individual bases into
   a sequence, or chop a DNA strand at a particular place.


Q: Why are organisms being engineered?

A: It varies. A researcher can often figure out why people get certain 
   inherited diseases by seeing what genes do or dont work in certain
   ways, and engineering organisms with genetic changes is one way to do
   this. This gives valuable medical information aboout things like cancer
   and birth defects or susceptibility to certain diseases.

   Biotech companies engineer bacteria to make certain molecules, usually
   proteins, which have some kind of commercial value. Insulin can be
   manufactured by engineered bacteria, which prevents the need to
   extract it from dead pigs. 

   Some companies are engineering existing organisms so that pesticides 
   don't kill them, or so that insects don't eat them, or so that they 
   grow really big really fast... there are lots of modifications that
   are planned. There is no way they have a clue about the long term
   impact of these organisms on the ecosystem.
   
   The main motivation for the biotech companies is that they think they
   can make an astounding amount of money by making organisms make
   molecules which are profitable. They use living organisms as
   nanofabrication factories for specialised molecules, because living
   organisms are very energy efficient at doing this. 
  

Q: The human genome project will give us the sequence of all the DNA in 
   a human being. Doesnt this mean we know all about how a human being
   works?

A: No. Knowing the sequence of all the genes doesn't say anything about
   how they all work or how they all interact. The genome project also 
   only took DNA from a small number of humans, so some varieties of
   human genes are not represented. Further, there are functions we need
   to have which our genes don't encode, like the manufacture of folate,
   which is made for us to a limited extent by bacteria in our intestines,
   so in theory, to encode a complete human, it might help to include some
   of these genes too. In any case there are errors in the sequencing,
   too.


Q: What is junk DNA?

A: DNA which does not encode genes which instruct the building of 
   proteins. I think junk is really a poor label, it simply means we
   don't know how to figure out what it does. I expect there will never
   be a human which could be engineered so that there was no junk DNA in
   its genome, or if it was so encoded, the human would be fragile...
   robust systems have lots of redundancy, thing you can damage without
   serious consequences.
 
   There are arguments about the role of junk as a kind of protective
   agent amongst which the useful DNA can hide from damage, or the junk  
   can act as a physical scaffold for useful DNA. It has been shown that
   it does have a role in packing DNA properly. So I hesitate to think
   that it's useless. 


Q: What are some examples of products made from genetically engineered 
   organisms?

A: They're all over the place. Enzymes in washing powder have been  
   engineered so they last longer in the wash. This probably
   has unforseen consequences in terms of how long these enzymes last,
   and what they do, when they hit marine life near ocean sewage
   outfalls, for example. 

   A lot of antibiotics are made by bacteria with entire suites of genes
   in them, which enable the bacteria to make the precursors to the
   antibiotic, and the antibiotic itself, from regular things which the
   bacteria can eat. These bacteria aren't usually released into the 
   environment, however.

   These days a lot of human foodstuffs are derived from plants with
   non-indigenous genes in them. Some of these genes have never existed
   until recently, notably the ones which degrade pesticides - mainly 
   because these pesticides didnt exist until recently. We don't know
   what these genes do out there in the ecosystems into which they are
   placed.


Q: If we eat it, how come we were never asked about this sort of stuff?

A: Companies have been doing this pretty much without the permission of 
   the public, and the public are being kept pretty much in the dark about
   it by the mainstream corporate media, whose sound-bite architecture
   doesn't permit detailed complex information to be distributed to the 
   public. People are interested but the media fail in their task of
   informing the public because the network bosses and TV moguls think
   it is more profitable to fill up the bandwidth with inconsequential
   drivel like olympics and sit-coms.

   It is also totally obvious that what is called western democracy is
   actually a mechanism to prevent the public having a say. You are 
   supposed to exercise your decision making power only very narrowly, as
   a consumer in the supermarket. That the public has a right to know, or
   even an interest in the biology of what they eat, or even their own
   biology, is not even on the agenda for discussion.


Q: Have there been serious mistakes resultant from genetic engineering?

a: Yeah. The classical, and tragically stupid, example occurred around
   1990. It'll take a little while to explain, it's complex... that's
   partly why it happened, the complexity is subtle.

   I mentioned amino acids and proteins... well, one of the amino acids
   acids we need is called tryptophan. You usually make it in your
   own body from a precursor called chorismate. Some people dont make
   enough of it, so they take it as a dietary supplement. We get most of
   it in our diets.
   
   You could go to all the trouble of using synthetic organic chemistry
   to make tryptophan, but the reactions are complex, expensive and the
   yields are low. So generally nobody does that. 
  
   Another way to make it in a factory is to get a big vat full of
   nutrient and grow a certain bacteria in it, a strain called
   Klebsiella, which happens to make a lot of tryptophan. Usually you let
   the vat brew for a few days, then rupture all the bacteria, and extract
   the tryptophan. Humans have been doing this perfectly adequately and 
   safely for decades. 

   We know what all the genes are which make the proteins which turn
   chorismate into tryptophan. Usually these genes are turned on and
   off in a regulated manner by the organism which is making the
   tryptophan. This makes sense, the organism doesnt make any more
   tryptophan than it needs, it allocates its resources in an efficient
   way. The regulation mechanism involves a stretch of DNA just before the
   genes which encode the proteins which make tryptophan. This stretch of
   DNA is called a promoter, and is involved in deciding wether or not a 
   protein is going to be made. In klebsiella, the promotors switch
   the tryptophan-making protein-manufacture machinery on or off as
   needed. This sort of regulation goes on everywhere in all living
   things.
  
   In the early 1990s Showa-Denko reckoned that they could make a
   strain of Klebsiella with all the regular tryptophan-making genes 
   turned on all the time - they replaced the usual promoters with ones
   which were turned on continuously. This was so bacteria would make 
   loads of tryptophan. It did indeed make loads and loads of tryptophan.
   It also started making something else, something rather unexpected.

   Anyway, since the tryptophan was manufactured in pretty much the same
   way as it usually was, it was decided that no special tests be
   performed on the end product, no labels need be put on the cans it
   was sold in, and so off it went into general consumption. 36 people
   were fatally poisoned. About 1500 now have permanent nerve poisoning,
   a syndrome called eosinophilia-myalgia (EMS)... permanent serious 
   muscle pain and other problems.

   So how did that happen? 

   It turns out that in the engineered klebsiella, the _precursor_ to
   tryptophan built up to such a high concentration that it formed a 
   dimer - that is, two precursor molecules chemically bonded with each
   other, to form a molecule called 1-ethylidene-bis-L-tryptophan, or
   EBT for short. This dimer never occurs in natural organisms, because
   the promoters switch production off when concentration gets too high.
   If biochemists were trained in physical chemistry they might have seen
   this coming, but physical chemistry in living things is hideously
   complex, they aren't, so they couldn't even begin to try and predict
   it. Physical chemistry in dead things is pretty complex, too.

   EBT is chemically similar to tryptophan (it is just two tryptophans
   bolted together, after all) so it came through with the tryptophan in
   the extraction procedure, to about 0.5% contamination. Showa Denko
   settled out of court for a large sum of money. The dead people are 
   still dead.

   When I did biochemistry/molecular genetics in 1996-1998, we were told
   lots about how tryptophan is synthesised in cells and how it is
   regulated, but not a peep about this screwup, which is a heck of a 
   cautionary tale. We ignore it at our peril.

   Tryptophan became a restricted chemical after that. How can legislators
   call a molecule restricted if it is a component of most of the proteins
   in every living thing? What really should have been restricted is 
   the freedom which companies have to spread GM derivatives around
   the planet. 
 

Q: What is substantial similarity?

A: It's a term which signifies that the GM food crop regulatory
   authorities and legislators have no fucking idea about molecular
   genetics. They pass legislation which says "if a GM plant is 
   substantially similar to the natural plant, then they can be treated as
   if they are the same."

   This is absolute crap piled on top of arrogant stupidity. I guess it
   is to be expected, since most of the people who write these laws are
   economists or lawyers, business types who haven't the slightest idea
   about how real living systems work. 

   Ok, yes, technically, chimpanzees are substantially similar to humans...
   mainly humans who write this kind of legislation. There are lots
   of examples in nature where the tiniest little difference can have 
   massive, often fatal differences.

   There's a protein I mentioned earlier, haemoglobin. Its main job is
   to sit around in red blood cells, pick up oxygen in the lungs and
   dump it in the other tissues. There are two genes which encode
   the subcomponent proteins in haemoglobin. Regular haemoglobin molecules
   float around independantly inside the red blood cell, so the red
   blood cells can squeeze through tiny blood vessels, called capillaries.
   
   Some people have a blood disorder called sickle cell anaemia. This 
   occurs because the amino acid sequence in the haemoglobin has  
   changed slightly, which in turn occurs because ONE DNA BASE has
   changed. The consequence of this is that the haemoglobin molecules
   stick together, and form rods, which turn red blood cells into a kind
   of stretched curved donut shape, which stops them from going through 
   capillaries easily, and this starves your flesh of oxygen.
   
   At a DNA level you might be substantially similar, but at a functional
   living being level you've got serious problems if this single base is
   changed ... one base in 3 billion. Basically because you multiply that
   error in ALL of your red cells. 

   There's a load of other examples... genes which predispose you to
   getting cancer... genes which, because they dont work, mean that you
   bleed for days when you get a tiny cut... all substantially similar,
   but nevertheless different to the usual version which most humans have.
   

Q: What sort of people are making the legislative decisions about GMOs?

A: I don't know, but they aren't the people who use or understand the
   technology. I went to a public forum at NSW state parliament in 1999
   about this, sat and listened to the suits at the front, and to the 
   questions asked by the journalists. I stood up and said, "Is there
   anyone in this room, aside from me, who actually does molecular 
   genetics, uses restriction enzymes, can sequence and clone a gene,
   or has any idea how this genetic technology works?"  I was the only
   person, in a room with five hundred people in it, who had ever actually
   gloved-up and gowned-up and done molecular genetics. 

   This isnt actually surprising. Molecular biology takes a while to
   learn, it's hard stuff. Also most gene jockeys who have jobs are
   employed by biotech firms, who would sack them instantly if they said
   anything about what they do... non-disclosure agreements are a part of
   getting employed. So they shut up. Most of the ones I've worked with
   don't actually have a clue about the distributed interactivity of the
   ecosystem, 'cos they are confined to a narrow specialty. I can talk
   about this 'cos I get paid to be a computer geek.

   Journalists don't even know what are the right questions to ask.

   They focus on wether or not the GM crops are safe to eat. My bet is,
   after it's been killed and processed and frozen and seasoned and oven
   roasted, it's probably safe to eat, but really we just don't know until
   some people die because of some wierdo interaction we didn't know about.
   The Showa Denko lesson is there for the learning. 

   Food safety is peripheral to the main questions, which are: Is it safe
   to have this casually modified molecular software running our global
   food supply? Is it stable for the next few million years? Is it diverse
   enough to be robust? (If it crashes as often as most commercially
   available software, we're in deep shit, soon). Should it be owned by a
   few large, unaccountable, immortal transnational companies, who employ
   biology-clueless accountants to decide about "how to manage" it for
   maximum profit? 
  
   Currently I think the respective answers are no, no, no and no.
   I am unlikely to change this stance in the forseeable future.

   The stake we should be interested in is long-term survival, that
   is what you play for when the game is called Darwinian selection.
   Species too stupid to realise this are eventually edited from the 
   gene pool. This is a fate for which I think h.sapiens is a prime
   candidate.

   Besides which, we already HAVE safe, not-modified food plants, which
   have a track record of centuries of safety. Let's eat 'em while we
   can still get them.


Q: What was the flavr savr tomato?

A: Tomatos rot because there are genes which turn on when the tomato
   ripens, which make enzymes which dissolve the structural components of
   the cells in the tomato. 

   The idea was that to make tomatos last longer on the supermarket
   shelf, you just turned these genes off. Anyway this was done and it
   produced a tomato which was more fragile than the ones already on the
   shelf. They were then used to make tomato soup since they're easier to
   process than regular tomatos. I don't know if they tasted any better.

   While we're on the subject of tomatos, the ones we get look really red
   and juicy, and are firm as tennis balls, but taste like wet cardboard.
   These were not genetically engineered to be that way... farmers and 
   consumers bred them that way.  How?

   For years grocery and supermarket managers complained that soft, mushy
   tomatos (which also tasted good) were not profitable. Shoppers would
   judge their tomato by the firmness and the look of it. Tomatos which 
   allocated their resources to making flavour molecules, were mushy and 
   were easily bruised and looked unattractive on the shelves, so shoppers
   didn't buy them even if they probably tasted good.

   The call went out, we want firmer tomatos. So tomato growers started to
   select strains which were physically tougher. A plant which allocates
   resources to structural strength is not allocating them to making 
   itself tasty. Over several decades we have arrived at a tomato which is
   optimised for profitable supermarket distribution, is as red, firm and
   shiny as a cricket ball and tastes about as good, too. They don't even
   go splat when you drop them. We brought this on ourselves without GMOs.
   

Q: WHat sort of weird GM things have you heard of?

A: Someone's trying to develop blue roses. You can, from certain
   research institutions, get hairless mice which faintly glow green in
   the dark, they have been engineered with genes from bioluminescent 
   organisms. I imagine these sorts of things will eventually become
   available for sale, and pollute our ecosystem even more than it is
   already, just because someone thinks there's a buck to be made and 
   no legislator will have the nouse or guts to prevent it. 
 
 
Q: Can you give some examples of bad effects a GMO might have in an
   ecosystem?

A: Yeah. There's a crop you can get with a bacterial enzyme engineered 
   into it. This enzyme attacks the internal structure of insects, so 
   when the insects eat the plant, the enzyme attacks the insect, which  
   kinda dissolves into mush from the inside out, in a day or so. 

   This means that the crop is protected, but it also means that the
   dead insect isn't out there doing its particular job in the ecosystem.
   It might be that it had other jobs like pollenating nearby plants, or
   becoming food for local bird life. Obviously if it has dissolved into
   brown sludge from the inside out, it can't perform those roles any
   more. Sometimes these roles are critical. Say your engineered plants
   also slowly kill every bee in the district... where will the beekeepers
   go? Where will the new saplings germinate?
  
   Carson wrote Silent Spring what, thirty years ago? What happens when
   the only organism which survives in an ecosystem is the one which has
   eliminated all the neighbours with engineered molecular trickery? 

   Also, if you plant a zillion acres with the same identical plant,
   you have a monoculture, and anything that damages it will damage the
   entire crop because there is no variation. Diversity creates
   robustness. If you have a crop with 5 strains of wheat, a frost might
   kill some of it, a drought might kill some of it, a flood might kill
   some of it, an insect might kill some of it, a fungus might kill some 
   of it, but any one of those will only kill 20% of your crop. A crop
   with one strain of wheat is uniformly vulnerable, and that's exactly
   what the GM plants are - pretty much genetically identical.

   And - a field full of some GM crop is a field with no natural crop in
   it. So what happens when the planet is planted with this? Where does 
   the diversity of heirloom strains go? They go extinct, that's where.
   Extinct is for a long, long time. Its software we can't afford to lose.


Q: Some people say we've been modifying plants for generations and that 
   GMOs are no different. Is this correct?

A: No. What we're doing is taking genes and inserting them into organisms
   in which they did not evolve. Genes and proteins do not come with an 
   instruction manual. Suppose there is a strain of wheat which has been
   selected over centuries for its resistance to frost. The particular
   makeup of that plant is is full of genes which evolved entirely in 
   wheat, and is going to be more predictable in the long term than say, a
   genetically modified wheat plant which has had a gene from, say, 
   a jellyfish engineered into it to improve frost resistance. We have no
   way of knowing what the jellyfish gene will do in the metabolism of the
   wheat, or in the ecosystem local to the wheat crop.... it evolved in
   the ocean, after all. Who knows what it could do in the paddocks?


Q: What's a roundup ready crop? 

A: A crop which has been engineered with enzymes which protect it from
   being poisoned by glyphosate sodium, which is a plant poison and   
   widely used weedkiller. The company which has the patents on these
   plants also owns the patents on the roundup herbicide. They engineer
   crops so they cant be killed by glyphos, so you can spray a crop and 
   it will only kill the weeds. 


Q: What effect do glyphosate resistance genes have on the ecosystem?

A: Certainly their presence encourages farmers to spray more glyphos on
   weed plants, which increases the amount of residue in the overall crop,
   and also in the soil. 

   If you look on a drum of Monsanto Roundup, it says that "glyphosate 
   breaks down on contact with soil" ...which is not completely true. 
   It doesn't all break down instantly, which means that the label is 
   misleading. It has a half life of several months. So it builds up 
   from repeated application. 

   It isn't known if these genes have spread into other plants, but
   it wouldn't be surprising, given that all lifeforms want to do is
   to spread their genes around, after all, that's what they evolved to
   do. Do we need weeds which are resistant to weedkiller? I think not.



Q: Some biotech companies say that they didn't add genes in or take genes
   out, yet they have modified the organism anyway, how does that work?

A: Word-play. You can have all the original genes, just driven under
   different promotors - genes which are usually switched on or off are
   engineered to be permanently turned off or on,  this has a significant
   effect on the behaviour of the organism. Or, a gene is reinserted 
   backwards so the protein it encodes doesn't get made. The effects of
   this aren't known, but you can say "we didnt take out or add any 
   genes."  Its like saying glyphos breaks down on contact with soil.
   Its a half-truth, they rely on people not to ask anything else.
   Usually it works because they don't know what to ask.


Q: There's an idea that a protein will do only one task, and that since it 
   only does that task that it can be relied upon only to do that task and
   therefore is a known quantity. Is this a fair statement?

A: No. All complex proteins have an evolutionary history. For example,
   we have a protein in our liver called alcohol dehydrogenase, it breaks 
   down ethanol (which is produced by our gut bacteria). It happens that
   a protein in the lens of human eyes, called crystallin, will also
   break down ethanol. This is probably because crystallin evolved over
   billions of years from the same sequences of DNA which encode alcohol
   dehydrogenase. Check out their genes, they're pretty similar. 
   
   Other proteins and enzymes probably used to do other jobs millions of
   years ago, but we don't know what they did because we don't even know
   how to look. 


Q: There's this stuff out there called terminator technology (TT). It is
   promoted because it stops GM plants from propagating. Does it have
   any long-term consequences for the stability of the global food supply?

A: Yes. TT makes crops from produce seeds which cant germinate. If the
   company which makes the F1 (parent) crop suddenly can't provide new 
   seeds to the farmers each year, then the result is shortage of crops 
   because the farmers can't grow next years crops from the seeds they 
   have already from the last years harvest. The word "crippleware"
   applies here. Destabilising the software which feeds you is uh, 
   kind of fucking stupid if you're interested in long-term survival.
   
   In the long term you can't guarantee a mutation won't enable the
   TT engineered crop (and any other genes it might have) to propagate,  
   because you're dealing with a living organism. _All_ it wants to 
   do is spread its genes around. Say a TT crop pollenates a nearby 
   wild type crop. Does that mean that the wild crop's progeny is now
   not going to germinate? This is like a self-destruct sequence but with
   a distribution mechanism. The analogy with a plague disease is exact.


Q: What about terminator technology's effects on the  autonomy of farmers?

A: it induces dependancy on the GM crop because farmers can't grow their
   crop from seeds they might have adapted to their particular environment
   over decades. They become dependant on an agribusiness co for their
   annual seed supply, for which they pay a lot of money, and they used to
   get it for free.


Q: Are genetically modified crops going to feed the starving millions?

A: No. This is because the starving millions dont have the money to 
   pay the agribusinesses for the privelage of using them. Simple and
   callous as that. This is peripheral to the question of wether we need
   more people on a planet with six billion humans on it, which I think
   we definately do not. 

   If there is a plague organism on this planet, we're it. We need 
   distributed immunocontraception. Maybe genetic engineering will
   provide that in one form or another. If history is any guide, it
   will happen by accident.

   There are some GM crops which have in them proteins from disease
   causing organisms, and the idea here is that people eat these crops,
   and their immune system learns to recognise the pathogen protein, so
   they get immunity to that disease. I think that's a good idea except
   the disease organism only needs to slightly change and the immune 
   system won't recognise it, necessitating a new release of a newly 
   modified crop. Again we dont know what viral proteins will do in food
   crops, for reasons I already mentioned. In any case, some companies
   think this is a bad idea because they make money out of selling cures, 
   and this sort of prevention strategy is bad for their profitability.


Q: Universities are the main institutions where molecular biologists are
   trained. Do university level courses have any components which inform
   young scientists about the long term consequences of molecular
   modification?

A: Universities are not places where the molecular biologists of the
   future are informed of the consequences of their interference with
   the genomes of organisms. They are places where you are trained to
   use the tools, but not to have any understanding of the consequences
   of application of those tools. It is the same as it was with training
   people in the 1930s to synthesise pesticides or hormones, which turned
   out to be oestrogen analogues which induced unusual vaginal cancers and
   male mammal infertility decades later at parts-per-million concentration
   and which we only became aware of in the 1960s and 1970s.

   Modification of organisms is something which doesnt go away, once you
   release an organism it stays released. Australia has a history of
   this... feral rabbits, foxes, cats, birds, weeds, trees. We are never
   going to be rid of them and they aren't even genetically modified.
   Our successes with smallpox and prickly pear are aberrations.


Q: There is a concept called "free software" - how does that tie into 
   genetic modification?

A: Living organisms run programs which are encoded in their DNA, and 
   executed by proteins. This molecular information which is actually  
   "software" is free... it is available to benefit all organisms. For
   example, you have three billion base-pairs of DNA in each of your
   cells, and this is the software which tells them how to run. You
   inherit this software from your parents, for free. Lots of
   agribiotech businesses take this software, modify it slightly and then
   claim the entire plant as theirs. This is, technically, on most
   electronic platforms, software piracy. It is exactly like micro$oft
   taking an open standard and modifying it so it becomes proprietary to 
   them. 
   
   The planetary genome should remain free software. It is too important
   to have it any other way.
   

Q: sheesh, can I go now?

A: Certainly.



<predator>








