File: NiMH.txt
Content: experience with NiMH batteries
By : <predator> 
Date : Dec 10 2001

Caveat: batteries die more quickly (ie, fewer charge-discharge
cycles) when fast charged, and laptop battery charger manufacturers all
try to charge the batteries up as fast as possible. These might have been
abused and tossed for that reason, and so be unrepresentative.

I was ratting through a dumpster in Alexandria and apart from a pair of
nice PCI 10/100baseT NICs (which worked, I found later) I came across some
laptop computer batteries. Many were NiCd, but I had plenty already. I
found a Toshiba 7.2V 3600mAh pack with NiMH cells in it. Joy! Free upgrade
for my extensively modified Petzl head torch, which currently uses 3 x
1.25V, 1000mAh long-abused NiCds in series with my triple white-led custom
globe (draws about 90mA at 4V) and a large PTC (polyswitch) resistor.

I cracked the thing open, and had a look. In evidence were 12 cells,
roughly AA size, with spot-welded solder tabs. Also: a thermal fuse rated
to 250V and 89 degrees C, and a bimetal strip (Klixon?), each taped to a
cell, and a thermistor. No evidence of burning, overheating, corrosion, 
etc. 12 cells, in two pairs of six in series, told me there was 1.2v
coming off each cell, and 1800mAh per cell. The circuitry typical of
Li-ion cells was consipicuously absent.

I disassembled the lot, and using the parts plus a Polyswitch set
to trip out at 1 amp, rebuilt a prototype in a format which would
replace the battery in my head torch.


+ ---[Cell]--Thermal fuse--[Cell]--Klixon bimetal---polyswitch--[cell]--- -

Soldering the thermal fuse is to be done carefully, if it goes beyond its
rated temperature it will open circuit and be useless. All devices should
be in close thermal contact with the cells.


The assemblage was flat as buggery, delivering 2.2 volts. 

Abuse 1)

a) Ten seconds across a 12V battery charger (at slightly more than 4 amps)
lit up the polyswitch and sprung the bimetal strip, but took the battery
up to 4.1 (rapidly falling) volts and demonstrated the system could at
least take a charge.

b) shorting out the (above) barely charged battery simply pulled its
voltage down to 2.1V (0.7 V per cell... very flat indeed) but this
voltage rose gradually as the constituents diffused and the PTC resistor
returned to a low-ohm state, back to 2.2V.

Charging was eventually carried out (multimeter in series with supply)  
120mA for 20h with my standard NiCd charger (a naked mains transformer,
bridge recitifier, which and a couple of 10-watt, 20 Ohm resistors... no
intelligence there!). This was done with the cells situated in a container
to limit fragment travel if the cells didn't like the charging and blew
up.

Last time I heard anything about NiMH cells was about 5 years ago when GKD
charged some in a standard NiCd charger, which resulted in explosive
venting of the cells due to evolution of oxygen from the electrolyte on
overcharge. Modern cells are built to catalyse the re-incorporation of
oxygen back into electrolyte solution and exhibit throughput sufficient to
convert the quantity of oxygen evolved at a charge rate of 180mA (which 
is 0.1 x capacity) when the battery is already fully charged. Energy is
dissipated as heat in this situation. Charging a full battery at more than
this rate will nevertheless vent the cell.

Full charge stood at 4.1 volts (1.4 per cell).

Abuse 2)

Short-out fully charged: the bimetal switch tripped out and the PTC got
very hot. Cell voltage dropped to 3.8V - this might have knocked the
"tail" of overvoltage off the cell for this cycle.

Fed LEDs at 90mA, lit up most adequately.

Discharge generally: very smooth, with none of the voltage-inversion
flickers from my NiCds. It is possible that, like the NiCds, the cell
output voltage (and hence current) will drop below what is required to
ignite my LEDs, well before anything approaching complete cell discharge
is reached.

Discharge time into LEDs so far unknown, prototype is undergoing regular
use.

Not known: tolerance for extreme discharge, overtemperature conditions,
etc

Plan: acquire more Klixon switches and polyswitches and build more 3-cell
batteries. I expect I will not need thermal fuses (they're cheap, tho, so
I might install 'em in the next set). I get something like 10 hr out of my
current NiCds and would be happy to get 16. 
 
<predator>

