From predator@cat.org.au Thu Dec 11 01:56:39 2003
Date: Sat, 6 Dec 2003 01:48:25 +1100 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: Jocelyn Hungerford <idiotproofau@yahoo.com.au>
Subject: Re: Beds of nettles, chunks of glass


Aaay Joss.

On Fri, 5 Dec 2003, Jocelyn Hungerford wrote:

> Dear pred, It's funny you say that...the blog writing is weird, as I
> think I said in the last post, it's public yet private, no-one except
> a few friends in the know are looking at it, but I still find it
> strangely inhibiting.

Heh, yeah, so I noticed. It's the sort of diary where we can write stuff
and selectively be motivated by the fact that there's an audience, but
what we write doesn't change with respect to the actual audience, but
rather our mere *perception* of who that audience is and how they will
react. I am not expecting my oldies to see this stuff I've written, nor
the docs who chopped it out. I wrote it with the expectation that some of
the people who would read it would learn certain things, related to who I
shag, so names have been omitted to protect the participants 8-) .. I'm
not immune to these presumed audience influences either.


> And I can't go on at length about my feelings about what's happening
> to you, because Aaron can read it and the whole subject of my deep
> feelings for anyone else are fraught with impossibility.

Yeah. I mentioned to my pre-operative shagger that I suspected news of
this turn of events might turn you into an emotional stew, for precisely
this reason, amongst others. She said, that I could mention this to her,
and that you couldn't mention it to Aaron, was an important difference.


> So I'm writing on paper instead.


A dangerous medium, if not carefully guarded, as you know. But it's the
one I use for all the important stuff, too.

> Just got back from an afternoon spent in the library, reading and
> writing. Lots of thoughts about you which I'll attempt to stitch up
> into something reasonably coherent and send you.

Awwww.. ta dude. There's something about the raggedy scribblings we place
on flattened sheets of dead tree, which just isn't there in email... your
handwriting, where your hand was, above this bit o' paper.

> I don't want you to die. 

I don't particularly want me to die either. But look at it this way. At
least now, to some extent, I have a clue how I'm probably gonna. In a few
weeks, I'll have deduced my odds from the literature, and know how long I
have. Most of us never get to find that out, it's a sort of luxury to
know.  Compare this to my expected mundane exit mode as a motorcyclist in
Sydney, I'd be lucky to get two seconds of impending fatality awareness,
and that'd be long enough to think, "OH SHIT I'M DEAD!" which would
really shit me - two seconds is not long enough to say all the important
things one thinks one has to say when one's on the way out. 

> I read your pieces online and am immensely grateful to them and to
> you. They are powerful and well-written because so honest and
> unflinching in the details; they help me to feel closer to you and
> give me a glimpse of how you are experiencing all this. Strangely
> enough it's the image of your lost belly button that is vivid and
> poignant for me. 

Beats reality TV. 

As for my navel, hey, relax, I found it again! Perhaps unsurprisingly,
tucked underneath my new scar-derived folded-in one... I'm in possession
of *two* belly buttons. Does this mean I'm reborn? I dunno. Nov 26 is
pretty close to the opposite side of the year to my birthday.

> Images of you lying out cold with your intestines heaped on your chest
> flash across my vision at odd moments. 

Yurgk. Well at least they put them all back in.

> I was squirming in my seat as I read--I'm one of those people who
> faints at the sight of blood, who faints at even the suggestion of
> pain on a cinema screen--but it was good. It helped me to feel as if I
> was there in a small way. 

Aw, man, don't torture yerself with this stuff, please.

> It's sadly apt--is that the term I'm looking
> for?--that you are the person who introduced me to Lorenzo Wilson
> Milam, that raw honest and articulate writer about illness and
> pain--and now you are proving to be every bit as fine a writer on that
> subject as he is. If only you didn't have to experience this.

Ta. I think Milam's better (he's had more illness and pain, too). I still
remember reading Sex and Broadcasting, which you loaned me, and I thought
about it a lot while we were trying to find componentry for the pirate
radio stuff we did in Nov last year. My memories of what Milam wrote were
helped by all the experiences we went through when we were building
clandestine aerials, tweaking our transmitter, jamming local FM radio, it
kind of padded the details out. But I got it in reverse after he wrote
what he wrote about radio. Whereas he wrote what he wrote, *after*
experiencing the actual events of a) running a radio station and b)
becoming a polio crip.

I reckon there's probably no way to get real authority about what one
writes other than to experience it, which is why I liked the stuff you
showed me early on when we were flashing our brains to each other.
Black blood, and a few others.

The rants are in part intended for you since you can't be here, and partly
for me while I still am. Call me egocentric, there's a certain amount of
desperation in them, the niggling feeling of having said nothing of value
or durable worth sorta grabbed me, and I hadda slap this stuff down as a
kind of personal antidote to that.

> By the way, if you do want to chat to my mum, her email address is
> carolehungerford@hotmail.com.au and phone number which you probably
> already have is 02 9810 7609.

Thanks. I might randomly visit in person sometime. Urrm, is this the
number which Hellstra have incorrectly advertised for years?
 
> I love you very much and wish I was there with you now.

Yeah, I miss ya, actually, but I dunno what I'd do if you were here.
Probably blubber a lot. I'll probably be a bit more composed in a couple
of weeks. Gis a yell if you blow into Sydney anytime, but don't go blowing
holes in yer schedule, I suspect strongly I'm gonna be around for at least
a handful of years yet, tho I might modify that opinion depending on The
Literature.

> Joss


*hug* (hey, I can hug things now and it doesn't hurt if I'm gentle)


<predator>

