File: oil_y2k_parallels.txt
Content: some observations of the two problems, and the reactions to them.

Economies are like any other organism. They need materials, energy and
information about how to manage these two things in order to function and
self-perpetuate. Deplete any enough, and they crash.

In the years immediately leading up to 2000, a lot of keystrokes were
hammered into the internet concerning the likelihood of impending collapse
of the global economic information infrastructure. It was instructive to
observe how the problem was framed, and how various people reacted to it.
Usenet had a thread on comp.software.year-2000, which is archived on
google and is illuminating to read. I consider it both as recent history
and a dry-run of sorts, a window into the complacent mindset of the urban
consumer zombie hoardes, a means to give some predictions about wether or
not they'll do any preparation, and how they'll behave when the liquid
hydrocarbons run out.

In any population, a few will heed the warnings and do things which
considerably improve their survival probability during that period when
those caught unawares have reverted to hunter-gatherer mode (kill to
reduce competitors and loot to feed oneself). The preparers - people who
stored extra food, arranged backup electricity, water supplies, fuels,
pharma, heirloom seeds, weapons, comms systems, books - were, in general,
laughed at by the many who didn't. Evidently, that aspect of the human
constitution whereby one responds to a plausible, if difficult to
quantify, threat to the smooth running of society's logistics has been
largely bred out; or maybe trained out by trans-generational exposure to
the one-eyed phosphor-dot myth factory in nearly every living room on the
planet. 

The y2k parallels to the hydrocarbon exhaustion scenario event are
interesting. We knew - had known - the century date change problem was
coming for years and years, and knew almost exactly when it would arrive,
but did next to nothing about it until the last moment. Y2k was an
essentially information systemic problem, not a materials/thermodynamics
one, but it loomed then much like the Hubbert curve does now. In 1998,
some people chimed in on listservs (for example, historian Gary North's)
saying that they remembered writing programs in 1970 allocating only 2
digits to the year field. Others replied they'd generated code with the
same sort of bug in it, the previous week. Others commenting "I can't
believe you wrote that stuff!"

Like wells becoming uneconomic, many systems failed well in advance of the
critical date. The very first event of its kind was named, by Cory
Hamasaki, after the year it claimed to be : 197A (a base-16 counter
misrepresentation of the year 1980). An aluminum smelter in NZ tripped-out
in 1996 due to a leap-year bug - though, to people who monitor large
systems failures around the world, this blended into the expected noise
floor of routine refinery blowups, plant accidents and factory explosions.
Here, there, little events - the appearance of birth certificates which
claimed babies were 100 years old, insurance policies which lapsed
non-existant decades ago, that sort of thing - confirmed for some the
fears that this was the thin edge of a failure-vs.-time curve which would
exhibit exponential steepness.

Hoardes of old programmers who knew ancient languages were suddenly
employable; automated Darwinian programming (where one rapidly evolves
code to a specification and then tests it for suitability), mass
pre-emptive replacement of hardware suspected of future failure,
workarounds... none of these, in the available time frame, were enough to
fix the problem. Brooks' Laws held. No, the work was not all done in time.

There was an amazing spread of system behaviours. Some systems failed, but
not for date-behaviour reasons. Other old systems kept working. Some new
systems, poorly beta-tested and slammed into production, went awry more
often than the old systems did. Some puked, crashed, behaved badly. But it
ultimately didn't matter. Bowsers kept pumping, the dialtones were still
there, there were happy images of fireworks on TV channels which broadcast
throughout the night.

Some systems were not - and some still are not - remediated but they do
their job anyway... it doesn't matter that the ice-cream factory's
programmable logic controllers all think it's 1903, or that the elevator
thinks it was serviced in 2099.

Most of these failures were not critical, but a few organisations were
actually crippled by them. Hersheys, Whirlpool, the odd bank here and
there. Dumpster loads of food were tossed because some or other system
decided cans with a use-by date of 1901 were stale. Computer companies
made a heap of money selling machines to assuage people's y2k
fear/uncertainty/doubt; the corporate media, as usual, totally failed to
provide any real information, but did suggest, often, that your money is
safe in the bank and that people withdrawing lots of it all at once would
be frowned upon. Pointy-haired bosses hid their heads in the sand and lied
about compliance and testing. All the usual sorts of nasty legislation
enabling martial law were passed, just in case. Big bureaucracies in key
industries behaved as usual: the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission sent me
a disquieting letter saying they had no idea, in response to my letter
asking them if they knew if any of their 30 year old nuke power generation
infrastructure had been certified functional for the rollover.

Jan 1 2000 came and went, and a few little things went wrong. The critical
stuff - electricity, petroleum - kept coming. I got some email from 2100.
Graffiti on a billboard near me summed it up nicely. Happy New Millenium -
Same Old Crap. 

It turned out the crucial tool for conceiving of the problem was never
spoken about, though in some ways people had deduced its core nature for
themselves. They knew that if enough systems were screwed up for long
enough, not enough would remain to facilitate replacement of the broken
ones nor do maintenance of the remaining ones which still work. This was
the conclusion upon which they decided to act or not.

A chap named Eigen, in the 1980's, came up with a concept for any
self-replicating data construct, where the number of errors exceeds a
certain quantity for that system, and when it does, that system cannot
ever recover from this, since it accumulates more errors as a result of
its existing error load. It works for viruses, repeatedly photocopied
photocopies, cells ... any system with noise and self-reproduction. Eigen
called it the Error Catastrophe Threshold. Complicated systems are more
prone to it, since they have more parts capable of going wrong in subtle,
interconnected ways, than do simple systems with few interacting
components. Ours is a very complex society, with very little logistical
redundancy, but much of the computer infrastructure out there does nothing
critical as regards actual production. It counts beans, it doesn't grow
them, and is not very critical to keeping us fed and healthy, so if it
crashes, well, so what. 

Most of the world's computation is not done by pushing electrons around in
wires and contaminated silicon. It's done by systems tested for
reliability for several million years - biological species. They calculate
how to get themselves reproduced, and how to use energy to reconfigure
matter from their environment to further that end. Sadly, h.sapiens has
enacted its own extinction event, which we're all living in now, so this
same computation infrastructure which turns water, dirt, light, and CO2
into air, food and habitat is also disappearing, with the remaining dregs
of crude, as I write.

In contrast to contemplation of the y2k problem, there is no requirement
for a complex tool for thinking about the long-term consequences of liquid
hydrocarbon depletion and exhaustion, since it's a no-brainer. The
collapse of hydrocarbon-powered mass mechanised agriculture and with it a
collapse in the farmer:eater ratio back down to something close to 1:5
(instead of 1:200 like it roughly is now). Tourists suddenly finding
themselves unable to afford a flight back to their home 16,000 km away.
Liars on the TV saying, LPG will replace oil, coal will replace oil,
fusion will replace oil... fat from porcine aviators, too, will probably
be proposed as a solution. Politicians passing laws making petrol
available only to themselves, miners, farmers, cops and the army. Clean
air and quiet streets in the cities. Lots of people on bicycles. Maybe,
treachery, the stench of death everywhere, for an indeterminate period.
The price of everything rising, scarcity of everything increasing (except
for old cars). Entrepreneurs mining polyethylene from landfill. Kids
growing up malnourished in the once-fat west. People with rumbling
stomachs looking wistfully at the encroaching weeds and saying "I can't
believe we burnt that stuff!"




<predator>

