From guyd@zip.com.au Thu Jan 30 21:24:46 2003
Date: Thu, 30 Jan 2003 18:16:02 +1100
From: Guy Dunphy <guyd@zip.com.au>
Reply-To: cave_clan@yahoogroups.com
To: cave_clan@yahoogroups.com
Subject: (C/C) Obligatory off-topic LONG article

html version at http://rense.com/general34/orwell.htm


                An Interview With Orwell

                     By Hsing Lee
                   lee8798@shaw.ca
                        1-22-3



Text - The dictionaries and definitions you are about to see are
real. They have not been altered in any way. The issues addressed
in this film are also real. The question is, what are you going to
do about it?

INTERIOR LIBRARY

Me - (sits down with pen and paper at a table with some books. a
Cambridge American English Dictionary, a Cambridge International
English Dictionary, a mock copy of 1984, and a copy of Emma
Goldman's Anarchism and Other Essays.)

Me - What a waste of time. English class. What's the point? I took
this stupid class for twelve years. Now I gotta PAY for school,
and they STILL make me take English? It's like I don't know enough
English by now.

EXTERIOR LIBRARY
In first person POV, we swoop from outside through the doors, down
the hallway, and into the library. We see Me sitting at the table,
and then swoop at the copy of 1984, crashing into the cover.

INTERIOR LIBRARY

George - I beg to differ.

Me - What? (looks around)

George - Over here.

Me - (looks down at the mock 1984 cover) Whoa.

George - As I was saying, I beg to differ. I speak English. You
speak American.

Me (is stunned)

George - George Orwell here, at your service

Me - But you're dead!

George - Obviously. But there's no need to be rude about it. I'm
here, and that's what matters.

Me - You're George Orwell?

George - Didn't I just say that?

Me: This is too weird. I must be dreaming. I read some books you
wrote when I was in high school, 1984 and Animal Farm.

George - I may have written them too well. They've stopped
teaching them in a lot of places. That's why I'm here. You need to
wake people up, because bad things are happening. Horrific things.
Things that happened in my time, and must never happen again.
You've already seen the beginnings of it, with Enron and Worldcom.

Me - What do you mean?

George - Do you remember what Newspeak is? From my book?

Me - I think so.

George - In my book 1984, Big Brother conceived of a truly
insidious method of control. He was in the business of cutting
vocabulary to the bone. Eliminating all the words they considered
obsolete; nouns, verbs, adjectives, all kinds of words. They
invented a lot of new words, and phrases as well.

Me - Kind of like Compassionate Conservatism?

George - EXACTLY like compassionate conservatism, although I would
probably have shortened it to Vampirism. But that's beside the
point.
When you take words out of the vocabulary, when you change the
meanings of words, and make some words synonymous with others when
those words are supposed to have two different meanings, it gets
very difficult for people to think about things like Life,
Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness.

Take the word Revolution for example. How could there be a
revolution if you take away the word itself? How is the thought of
revolution to form in the minds of people who've never
conceptualized such a thing?

Me - I think I see your point, but it's not like they can remove
the word revolution from the dictionary...

George - They don't have to. For there to be revolution, there
must be an ideology behind it. All you have to do is remove the
ability to properly shape and define a subversive ideology from
the language. No new ideology, no revolution.

Me - (puzzled) But you mentioned Enron and WorldCom. How do things
like Enron and WorldCom happen, and how do they relate to
Newspeak? Isn't it greed that makes things like Enron happen?

George - Yes, in part.

Me - Why only in part?

George - Because it's actually the American Way. You see, Big
Brother and the media have done some very interesting things with
the English language.

When I came up with the concept of the Newspeak Dictionary, I
never imagined they'd actually have the audacity to PUBLISH one
until they purged all the other dictionaries.

I suspect the reason behind it is, the government is so confident
of its control; they no longer care if people point out that
Americans no longer speaks English.

Me - We DO speak English!

George - Again, I beg to differ. Let's examine the fundamental
principle behind the economy of the United States. Capitalism. In
the English language, capitalism means one thing, but in American
Newspeak, it means something else entirely.

You see those dictionaries? Open them up to Capitalism.

Me - (opens the International dictionary to Capitalism)

George - In the Cambridge International Dictionary of English,
Capitalism is defined as an economic, political and social system
based on private ownership of property, business and industry, and
directed towards making the greatest possible profits for
successful organizations and people.

Now look at the other one.

Me - (opens the American dictionary to Capitalism)

In the Cambridge Dictionary of American English, the Newspeak
version, Capitalism is defined as an economic system based on
private ownership of property and business, with the goal of
making the greatest possible profits for the owners.

Me - Wow.
George - Amazing isn't it? You see the problem. In the rest of
the world, capitalism means private ownership where success is
financially rewarded. Using America's Newspeak Dictionary,
capitalism means private ownership where the OWNERS, and not the
company or the employees are the ones entitled to capital,
regardless of how badly the business does.

Success doesn't even come into play. In America, the owners are
entitled to the greatest possible profits, period.

Me - You weren't kidding about this Newspeak stuff.

George - No, I wasn't kidding. And it's not funny.

Look at some more examples. Look up Nationalism.

Me - (opens the International dictionary to Nationalism)
George - Nationalism, as defined in English from the same
International Cambridge Dictionary, is the desire for and the
attempt to achieve political independence for your country or
nation. Nationalism is also a great or too great love of your own
country.

Me - (opens the American dictionary to Nationalism)

George - In the American Newspeak dictionary, Nationalism is the
feelings of affection, loyalty, and pride that people have for
their country. Nationalism is also the desire for political
independence in a country that is controlled by or part of another
country.

Gone is the talk of 'too great a love' of one's country. The
American description of Nationalism is similar to what we in my
day knew as Patriotism.

Now take a look at Communism.

Me - (opens the International dictionary to Communism)
George - The English definition is the belief in a classless
society in which the methods of production are owned and
controlled by all its members and everyone works as much as they
can and receives what they need. Now check the American version.

Me - (opens the American dictionary to Communism)

George - Americans define Communism as an economic system based on
public ownership of property and control of the methods of
production, and in which no person profits from the work of
others.

No mention of classless society, or each working as they can and
receiving according to their needs. The English definition is
based on Marx's description of Communism, as it should be. The
American version is not.

Me - That seems like a fairly minor change. I don't see this as
being as bad as the others.

George - That's because I'm not finished yet. Look at how both
dictionaries define Socialism.

Me - (opens the International to Socialism)

George - Any economic or political system based on government
ownership and control of important businesses and methods of
production.

Me - (opens the American to Socialism...looks back and forth)

Me - They're the same! And they sound a lot like the American
English definition of Communism...

George - Yes, they do, don't they? You see, for our world to
function properly requires clear communication. When two people
have two different meanings for the same word, we have a
communication breakdown. Neither one is clear what the other is
talking about. So now, to many Americans, Communism is synonymous
with Socialism.

Me - But why would they do this?

George: There are three reasons. First, there's confusion. The
more confused the masses are, the harder it is for them to form
organized opposition to tyranny. The majority of people schooled
in the United States quite literally can't read. They can read,
but they're unable to comprehend what they're reading, because
they don't have the same vocabulary as other people. It's all
mixed up.

It's also done for purposes of isolation. By making these changes,
the Government isolates Americans from the rest of the world,
because what the average American sees as Patriotism, others see
as Nationalism.

That's why in Newspeak, Nationalism is the feelings of affection,
loyalty, and pride that people have for their country. By taking
out the 'too great a love' from the definition, it's no longer
understood that nationalism can be a bad thing.

Me - I never thought of it that way before.

George - They're trying to move the definition of Nationalism as
close to the definition of Patriotism as possible. Eventually, the
words will become synonymous. For many Americans, they're already
synonymous. Many people are incapable of distinguishing between
Patriotism and blind Nationalism.

Me - You're right. I've seen it happening since September 11.

George - Quite. What a tragic waste of life. I can only hope
you'll learn from it. I'm here to see that it doesn't happen
again.
The third reason why Newspeak is done is for simplicity's sake.
Propaganda, as Hitler taught us, must be kept simple. It must
cater to the lowest common denominator. We know that America hates
Communism. So by painting Democratic Socialists with the same
brush as Communists in the Newspeak dictionary, we demonize the
Socialists before they get a chance to speak for themselves.

Me - I see your point. But it doesn't exactly explain Enron, does
it?

George - No, but there's something else that you should look up.
Look in the Cambridge International English Dictionary under
Profiteer.

Me - (opens the International dictionary to profiteer)
Me - OK just a sec...here it is...profiteer - noun, DISAPPROVING.
A profiteer is a person who takes advantage unfairly of a
situation in which other people are suffering to make a profit,
often by selling at an unusually high price goods which are
difficult to obtain. a war profiteer.

George - Now look up Profiteer in the Cambridge American
Dictionary.

Me - (searches American dictionary for Profiteer)
Me - OK.
hmm...profit...profitable...profitability...profitably...profits.
HEY!

Wait a minute! There's NO LISTING in the American dictionary for
Profiteer!

George - (Sighs) You realize you people should be paying me
royalties for this.

Me - This is crazy.

George - No, it's fascist, not crazy.

Me - No wonder Enron and Worldcom did what they did. According to
the American dictionary, they're actually entitled to act in like
this aren't they?

George - Precisely. In their eyes they did nothing wrong, because
what they did is in fact the very definition of Capitalism,
according to the American Newspeak Dictionary.

Me - No WONDER everyone looks confused when Bush talks. His mouth
opens, words come out, and everyone walks away thinking he said
something different.

George - EXACTLY. Now you're getting the idea. Language can be
used in different ways to influence everything from comprehension
to the very fabric of history itself. Consider the word Anarchism.

Me - I know this one! You're talking about the Anarchist movement
at the turn of the 19th to the 20th century, where Emma Goldman
and her colleagues were pushing for a free society.

George - Yes. Look it up.

Me - (opens the International dictionary to Anarchism)

George - Anarchism is defined in the English language as the
political belief that there should be little or no formal or
official organization to society but that people should work
freely together.

Leon Czolgosz, an Anarchist, assassinated President McKinley for
drawing America into the Spanish American war on behalf of the
Skull and Bones friendly United Fruit Company. In the end, United
Fruit ended up owning almost all of Latin America and the
Caribbean. First, they staged the attack on the Maine.

Me - I learned about that in school. The Maine was never attacked.
But in the end, the Spanish American war helped win Cuba and the
Philippines their freedom.

George - Bollocks. Imagine if Mexico was a superpower. Imagine
they took part of Texas away from the United States, and made it
into a military base. Would you consider America to be free?

Me - No, but -

George - Cuba DID win its freedom, but the US State Department
turned around and took it back. They took Guantanamo Bay, where
your Camp X-Ray is now, and kept it, even though they were asked
to leave. Cuba has been under military occupation ever since, on
top of the economic blockade. The Philippines was under military
occupation until the 1990's, and it's been re-occupied since 2001.
The Spanish American war was why an Anarchist assassinated
McKinley. Anarchism is opposed to empire building. They propose
personal freedom for ALL people. Try looking up Anarchism in the
American Newspeak dictionary...

Me - (looks for Anarchism in the American dictionary)

Me - The word Anarchism isn't even there! The only definition is
for Anarchy: a lack of organization and control in a society or
group, esp. because either there is no government or it has no
power.
(agitated) After that, it skips to Anarchist, and there no
definition for the word. There's just a statement that contradicts
what the Anarchist movement represents. Personal freedom.
It says, 'Belief in freedom doesn't make you an anarchist.'

(looking up mad) They've completely reversed the meaning of
Anarchism!

George - Good man. Now you see. It's like the Anarchist movement
never even existed, when in reality, it's almost as old as
Marxism. Emma Goldman was fighting Big Brother for women's rights,
and minority rights, fifty years before the civil rights movement.
She was jailed, then kicked out of America for proposing equal
rights, fifty-six years after the Emancipation Proclamation.

Newspeak is a clever way to marginalize today's anti-globalization
movement isn't it? Present them as a new breed of nuts that want
to cause global chaos, when in fact Anarchism has nothing to do
with actual chaos -

Me - Man. you're starting to scare me.

George - We haven't even got to the bad part yet. When you work
for four generations to create a population as dumbed-down as the
American public, there must be an underlying reason for such
action. What do you think that reason is?

Me - I don't know WHAT to think anymore.

George - FASCISM. It's been a slow, deliberate process since
McKinley's time, designed to lead America into a fascist or
National Socialist model of Empire. A Fourth Reich, if you will.

Me: NOW WAIT A MINUTE! Are you trying to tell me that America's
been moving toward Nazism since 1900? THAT'S BULL. Hitler didn't
even publish Mein Kampf until 1925! Even I know that.

George - Pardon my frankness, but your indignation sir, is
exceeded only by your ignorance. Whoever said that the ideas in
Mein Kampf originated with Hitler?

Me - But -

George - You weren't alive to see pictures of the concentration
camps in the Philippines. You didn't see the torture, the
hangings, the disemboweling and decapitation of the poor
Philippinos by American GI's. You didn't see the million people
who were killed in the early years of the US Occupation. No one
teaches this part of the Spanish American War anymore.

There are lots of people here with me who saw it. One of them
wants to talk to you later. He has a brief message co-authored by
him and an American General, Smedley Butler.

Me - I've heard of him. He was the most decorated soldier in the
Marine Corps. Two-time Congressional Medal of Honor winner.
George - He wrote a book called War Is A Racket, hoping people
would smarten up. Smedley's REALLY mad. He wanted to talk to you,
but we took a vote and decided against it. He's too angry, and
he'd just end up yelling at you.
But he told me to tell you that he wants his base closed. He says
Okinawa has suffered enough, and that you should all go home and
stop raping little Japanese girls in his name.

In any event, Sam's going to stop by when I'm done. But I digress.
After McKinley was shot, Teddy Roosevelt became president. After
Roosevelt came a Skull and Bonesmen named William Howard Taft. He
was the overseer of the Philippines, and from there he went to the
White House.

Me - We didn't learn much about Taft in school.

George - That's because in 1909, he wrote a policy paper called
Dollar Diplomacy. Let me read you some of it.

George - (looks down to read from a book)
"In its foreign affairs the United States should present to the
world a united front. The intellectual, financial, and industrial
interests of the country and the publicist, the wage earner, the
farmer, and citizen of whatever occupation must cooperate in a
spirit of high patriotism to promote that national solidarity
which is indispensable to national efficiency and to the
attainment of national ideals."

Note that Patriotism is in there. Not only patriotism: HIGH
patriotism, with a slew of repetition on the word National. High
spirit, national efficiency, and national ideals. Is this not
NATIONALISM?

Look closer. A United Front. Solidarity of intellectuals, finance,
industry, the media, wage earners, farmers, and citizens, where
the State, and not the individual, is supreme. Is this not
SOCIALISM?

What do you get when you put Nationalism and Socialism together?

Me - (in total shock) OH...MY....GOD!

George - God, dear boy, has nothing to do with it. Nothing at all.
You should be looking the other way, looking South. To the Deep
Jim Crow South.

Me - (still in shock) My brain hurts. I've been living in this
world for twenty years. How is it that I don't know these things,
but a dead guy does? And why hasn't anyone told me this before?

George - First of all, there are many people out there who know
this already, and who are trying to tell people. Go talk to some
of the men and women who lived through World War II. They'll tell
you what fascism and Nazism are like, and how they have this way
of sneaking up on you, when the people get caught up in the
patriotic fervor of the Drums of War. The problem is, no one's
listening to the men who fought the war.

Go to Yellow Times dot org and read some articles by John Brand.
He knows what he's talking about.
Me - I'll do that. (writes it down) Yellow Times dot Org.

George - It was Mussolini, the father of fascism himself, who
said, "Fascism should rightly be called corporatism, as it is the
merger of state and corporate power."
Is that not precisely what you have today?

Millions for Kenneth Lay, and nothing for 401K's?

Billions in subsidies for big business, paid for with billions in
cutbacks from social services for the nation's poor and
underprivileged?

Me - Yeah.

George - Where big business and government are concerned, one can
no longer tell where the head ends and the arse begins. The
American people have been FOCCED.

Me - You can say THAT again.

George: It doesn't mean what you think. FOCCED. F. O. C. C. E. D.

A handy acronym best used to describe the corporate powers that
have hijacked the American Republic, and replaced it with a
fascist plutocracy.

The Finance, Oil, Chemical, Credit, Energy and Defense sectors of
Wall Street have turned America into their own personal piggybank,
where corporations and lobbyists control the government, write the
laws, and screw the American people.

Me - Wow. You got THAT right. We've been FOCCED!

George - As to your other question, now that I'm dead, I know
pretty much everything. But that's not important. I haven't much
time left, and Sam's getting impatient.

What's important is now that you know, what are you going to do
about it?

Me - Huh? What do you mean what am I going to do? I can't do jack!

George - I'm not referring only to you. You're going to write this
down, and tell as many people as you can, as fast as you can. Not
only will you get an A in English, but if you tell two friends,
and they tell two friends, and so on, pretty soon enough people
will know.

Me - But what's that going to accomplish?

George - Think for a moment. Nazism won't work if people know what
the Skull and Bones are trying to do. They can't function if too
many people know their agenda.

What amazes me is these people even use the Pirate Skull and
Crossbones as their symbol. They're TELLING you that they're a
bunch of murderous, profiteering pirates.

And yet you've sent THREE of them to the White House. What is
wrong with you people?

Me - Three of them? What do you mean?
George - William Howard Taft, George Herbert Walker Bush, and
George Walker Bush are all members of the Yale Fraternal Order of
the Skull and Bones. A fraternity that was founded and financed in
1832 by the Russell Trust. A Trust set up by Russell and Company,
which was the world's largest opium dealer.

Prescott Bush, the grandfather of today's Bush, was also a member,
AND a Nazi collaborator besides. The beginning of the Bush family
fortune came from the use of Auschwitz slave labor in Poland.
Me: HOW DO WE NOT KNOW THIS?

George: Go back to your dictionary. Look up Conspire in the
International edition.

Me - (opens the International dictionary to Conspire)
Me - Conspire. To plan secretly with other people to do something
bad, illegal, or against someone's wishes. Events or conditions
might be said to conspire if they combine in such a way that they
spoil your plans.

George - Now go to the American version.

Me - It only has the first half of the definition: to plan
secretly with other people to do something bad, illegal, or
against someone's wishes.

George - Now look up Conspiracy in the International edition.

Me - There's a bunch of usage examples, and then this: A
conspiracy of silence is a general agreement to keep silent about
a subject for the purpose of secrecy. It also says, Conspiracy
theory refers to the belief that unpleasant things which happen,
esp. to governments, are planned by people who want to cause
difficulties and do not happen by chance.

George - Read me some of the examples.

Me - The three men are accused of conspiracy, working illegally
against the government. She has been charged with conspiracy,
planning with someone else to murder. Fifteen years working for
the same firm and she still hadn't been promoted - there was a
conspiracy against her -someone did not want her to be successful.
I think there was a conspiracy to keep me out of the committee.
When she stepped on the scales she weighed 4 kilograms heavier -
it was a conspiracy (she thought the machine was intentionally
showing the wrong weight)!

George - So we can agree that a conspiracy is a plot where a
person, persons or things work against someone or something? We
can agree that many things can be a conspiracy, in the most
mundane circumstance?

Me - Yeah.

George - Legally in both England and America, a criminal
conspiracy is when more than one person plans a criminal action,
or a group engages in ongoing criminal actions. Now, look up
Conspiracy in the American Newspeak version.

Me - There's no definition! And only one usage example, with no
qualification at the end of the example to explain why there's a
conspiracy. All it says is Eight men were charged with conspiracy
to smuggle cocaine. It's like they've left it vague on purpose.

George - Precisely. Note also that Conspiratorial and
Conspiratorially have been removed from the American version, as
has the idea of a Conspiracy theory.

Me - DAMN. You're right! It's a conspiracy!

George - (smiling) Now you're getting it. You take away the idea
of a conspiracy of silence. You make the concept of conspiracy
vague. You remove the ability to describe conspiratorial action,
and the idea of acting conspiratorially. This serves at least five
purposes doesn't it?

First, it serves to dumb-down people's understand of conspiracy,
so they don't catch on to Big Brother's conspiratorial actions.
Second, because of the vagueness of the word Conspiracy, it makes
it hard for people to understand the simple fact that ANY plot by
more than one person in contravention of law is by definition a
conspiracy.

Third, by removing the idea of a Conspiracy theory from the
Newspeak dictionary, we take legitimacy away from those who guess
correctly about, or try to expose a conspiracy in action.
By doing this, they marginalize anyone who comes up with a
conspiracy theory as a nut, because there's no such thing in the
dictionary, so they can say these people don't speak the same
language as the rest of us, and they're crazy.

Me - Wow. This is mind-boggling.

George - Fourth, once they've managed to marginalize anyone who's
trying to point out what's going on, they can operate more openly,
because the public will be the ones to shoot down conspiracy
theorists.

Me - (nods profusely)

George - Finally, they rest assured that the public will never
catch on, because so long as they maintain the conspiracy of
silence, so long as no one talks, within a few generations, people
won't even understand the concept of a conspiracy of silence, or
the concept of a vast, right-wing conspiracy.

Me - Well this sucks. What are we supposed to do about it?

George - They have a weakness. Like Hitler, their strategy for
wresting power away from Congress and the people is dependent upon
the BIG LIE. Remember what I told you in 1984 about Big Brother's
control mechanism. Propaganda. Blind obedience. War is peace.
Ignorance is strength. Freedom is slavery.

Me - And two plus two equals five. Not anymore Mr. Orwell. Not for
me.

George - Good man. Now you understand.
If the balloon bursts on the Big Lie, the game is up. They can't
exercise direct overt control, because there are two hundred and
fifty million guns in the country. The founding fathers knew what
they were doing with the Second Amendment.

George - (looks down as if reading)

When a long train of abuses and usurpations, pursuing invariably
the same object evinces a design to reduce them under absolute
despotism, it is their right, it is their duty, to throw off such
government, and to provide new guards for their future security.
That's what the Second Amendment is for.

Me - Hold on. Are you calling for armed insurrection?

George - Of course, not. Don't you know that under the Patriot
Act, the Declaration of Independence, the Bill of Rights, and the
Constitution have been gone for a year as of October 26, 2002?

There is no First Amendment anymore, or habeas corpus. There's no
more right to attorney client privilege, or even the right to an
attorney. You can be thrown in jail for terrorism for exercising
your constitutional rights.

Ask Sherman Austin, the Webmaster of Raise the Fist dot com about
it. He's been jailed for having a website, and using that website
to exercise his freedom of expression.

You can't even give moral support to Constitutional rights
anymore, let alone make a call for armed insurrection.

Me - But you just said we should throw off this government with
two hundred and fifty million guns!

George - I said nothing of the sort. All I'm saying is what
another assassinated president said.

"Those who make peaceful revolution impossible will make violent
revolution inevitable."

It doesn't have to come to that. All you have to do is make sure
this pathological liar who stole the election doesn't get back
into White House. Neither he nor any member of his family must
ever again enter the White House. No Skull and Bonesmen must ever
again hold high office.

After that, you can worry about changing the electoral process, so
the people have democratic representation, instead of this
ridiculous two party system. I think it was the wrestler turned
Governor Jesse Ventura who said, "We get two choices in this
country. That's only one more than in Russia."

Me - Yeah, this choice between more of the same and less of the
same bugs me too. I think it bugs most people, but they don't know
what to do about it.

George - You can, you know. Do something that is. There are
twenty-five months between now and the next Presidential race. Do
the math. If you only tell two people about this every four weeks,
and they in turn pass it on to two people every four weeks, that's
more than sixty-six million people who will know about it, come
the next election.
That's seventeen million more votes than won the last election,
for talking to one person every two weeks. Think about that. It's
not as hard as you believe.

Are you familiar with Chinese philosophy?
It was Lao-Tzu who said, "A journey of a thousand miles begins
with a single step."

One step. And then another. And another. Until the walls come
tumbling down.
All you have to do is talk to people, every chance you get.

Me - I'll do that.

George - First, kick Mr. Bush out. And then get your act together.
Force campaign finance reforms. Take the lobby money out of the
election process. Allow corporations to match employee donations,
but not to donate money directly. Put an independent in the White
House. Do it before you and your friends end up at some
Concentration Camp.

Me - I think I'm going to take some History classes. Political
Science too. AND English.

George - What a wonderful idea. One last thing. There's someone
else who wants to talk to you. Someone whose books, like mine, are
being pulled from schools at an alarming rate. He only has one
thing to say, so it won't take long.

(George is being shoved off the face of the book by a hand)

George - His name is Sam. You know him by the name Mark Twain.
Goodbye, young man. And DON'T forget to pass this on. The truth
hurts, but silence kills.

(Both George and Twain are now on the book cover, with Mark
shoving at George's head.)

Me - Goodbye Mr. Orwell. And thanks. Thanks a LOT. I don't know
how to explain it. I feel different. I feel awake. like I've
awakened from a really long dream. You've taught me more in a few
minutes than I've learned in years.

George - Good. That's what we came back for. Now, pass it on. I
really have to go now. Sam, say hello to our readers.

(Twain pushes George off the cover, and takes his place in the
middle of the cover)

Mark Twain - Hello.

Me - Hi Mr. Twain. This is a lot of stuff to remember, but I'll
try and keep it all straight. Mr. Orwell said you have something
to say. What would that be?

Mark Twain - I have a message from Smedley Butler and myself for
the American people. We hope you pay attention this time, because
time is running out.

(Close up on mock 1984 cover. Twain is looking directly into
Camera.)

We tried to tell you once before:

It didn't do much good.

We tried to warn you long ago,
But your heads are made of wood.

One more try is all you get,

And then you're on your own.

Listen hard, and stand up NOW,
Before your chance is blown.

Forget their lies, ignore the goons,

Forget their stupid rules,

We've said it once; we'll say it again,

WAR IS A RACKET, YOU FOOLS!

The last phrase shows up in big text on the cover, and then it
fades back to Orwell's static picture.

Me - (is lying face down on the table, sleeping. He lifts his
head, opens his eyes, and looks down at the table. He picks up the
copy of 1984, and looks closely at it. He looks down at the table
again.)

(On the table is a note scrawled on his paper, written with a
calligraphy pen.)

There are more wonders in Heaven and Earth than you or I have ever
dreamt of, Horatio...

(As we zoom in on the note, the picture fades away, leaving only
the text behind.)

(As the text fades, the credits scroll.)


Peace!





 

Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/ 


