File: patent.txt
Content: formal patent draft, 

Re: SEQUESTRATION OF BLOOD BORNE VIRAL PARTICLES
Australian Provisional Patent No:


Background to this patent:

On 14 March 2001 a provisional patent bearing the name above was filed by
Mr Joseph Keogh and Mr Michael Carlton. It contained an outline
description of a process whereby mammalian erythrocytes could be modified
in such a way as would render them attractive targets for invasion by
virus particles in the bloodstream.

This document addresses some shortcomings of the original provisional 
patent, and clarifies further the nature of and applications for the
present invention.

The immunological technique described may be known as antigen masquerading.

Autotransplantation into bone marrow tissue of engineered erythrocyte
precursors is contraindicated, as the precursors may already express the
CD4 receptor and still have a functioning nucleus/ER/Golgi (etc), thereby
enabling them to function, from the perspective of the virus, as a useful
target for invasion and replication. This would simply provide the
pathogen with another target, as well as ruin a future source of
potentially thousands of denucleate decoy erythrocytes. 

In addition it would not necessarily be reliably known if the stochastic 
integration of novel genes into erythrocyte precursors would in some
unpredictable way interfere with the proliferative behaviour of these
cells and create what would be, in effect, a blood cell tumor.

As such it is felt that a different protocol, generating in vitro only
engineered erythrocytes for later infusion, and no cells containing a
nucleus, endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondria, Golgi apparatus or other
components which might enable an engineered cell to become a rogue agent
in vivo, is therefore preferable.

Hence, currently, the present invention is likely to be best applied and
manufactured in vitro, and only the final product - engineered
erythrocytes - applied in humans medically deemed to require them;
however, it is now clear that this technique may be amenable to adaption
and implementation using peripheral blood stem cell transplantation in the
foreseeable future.

We do not think these facts substantially alter the claimed central
inventive inventive step - antigen masquerading - in the aforementioned
provisional patent.

The present invention is able to be implemented in a multistep schema
outlined below.



PRECURSOR EXTRACTION

Human bone marrow apsiration is a widely practised and well known
technique. Advances in leukapheresis and cell sorting technology have
given rise to the ability to extract the required precursors from
peripheral blood. Foetal umbilical cord blood is another source of
suitable cells. 

After extraction of blood cells from a serologically similar donor
(usually the intended recipient), some number of thousands of CD34+ cells
could be extracted by leukapheresis and suitable aliquots selected using
the methods of Freyssinier et.al, see British Journal of Haematology 1999,
106, 912-922, or those employed by Fukuda, Kaneko, Egashira and Oshimi.
See: Stem Cells 1998 : 16 : 294-300. A particularly enriched population of
cells with desirable erythropoietic stem cell behaviour would be further
able to be isolated using the methodology of Ratajczak, et al, see:
Leukemia (1998) 12, 942-950. The exact nature of the extraction procedure
is not critical provided it makes available a supply of viable, undamaged
CD34+ cells for subsequent attempts at engineering, selection and later
serum-free culture with Interleukin 3, Interleukin 6 and Stem Cell Factor
in order to promote the appearance of (masquerade engineered) CD36+ cells,
which are precursor cells to antigen-masquerading erythrocytes.

Another desirable precursor population of erythrocyte precursors, which
can self-renew without differentiation in the presence of ligands for the
glucocorticoid receptor, may also exist in mammals and would represent
another potential target for engineering in order to produce antigen
masquerading characteristics in differentiated progeny.


ENGINEERING

Application of the present invention is not limited to the following
example, which is illustrative of its utility.

Given a harvest of appropriate nucleated precursors, attempts are made to
incorporate into the DNA of these precursors, exogenous DNA encoding the
receptor protein in such a way as enables it to be expressed on the
surface of antigen masquerading erythrocytes. Numerous ways exist to make
this exogenous DNA, the commonest would be Polymerase Chain Reaction,
wherein a desired sequence of DNA could be amplified from nuclear DNA of
cells exhibiting the desired form of CD4 receptor, and later incorporated
into erythrocyte precursor cells, for antigen masquerading purposes.

CD4 has been previously isolated from RH123/kit+ subpopulations of human
CD34+ cells using reverse-transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction
(RT-PCR), it is anticipated that DNA encoding for other antigens of
interest could be amplified from mRNA (or if required, nuclear DNA) in
much the same way, given appropriate primer design. The primers and method
employed by Lee et al (see: Blood, Vol.93 No.4 pp1145-1156, 1999) are
deemed sufficient to produce the required DNA for subsequent attempts at
stable incorporation into erythrocyte precursor nuclear DNA of genes
encoding the CD4 receptor.

It might be considered useful to incorporate into the primer design a
promotor section which would give rise to an amplicon incorporating a
promotor section of DNA which could appropriately regulate the expression
of the antigen of interest (for example, whatever the promotor sequence is
which regulates expression of, say, glycophorin, or perhaps the ABO, Rh or
other antigens). In the case of the CD4 immunoglobulin it is expected that
primer design need not incorporate features encoding those peptide termini
specifying the translocation of the protein to the cell membrane surface,
since this is where it is transported in CD4+ cells by default.
Constitutive promotion is to be considered with caution, as the
thixotropic and other properties of erythrocytes with excessive surface
antigen density are unpredictable.

Different alleles for the CD4 protein are known to exist. The commonest
allele of CD4 protein is exhibited on what are called CD4+ T-lymphocytes,
and this allele of CD4 represents a significant adherent receptor which
interacts with a glycoprotein (gp120) found on the surface of the
widespread pathogen, HTLV-3, better known as HIV, the RNA virus
responsible for human acquired immune deficiency syndrome. Other receptors
are also known to co-mediate the human immunoviral recognition of T-cells
includes but is probably not limited to the following: almost always
either CCR5 or CXCR4, and in some cases CCR2b, CCR3, CCR8, STRL33, AJP,
GPR1, GPR15, V28, and ChemR23. It is expected some of these are also
amenable to employment as masquerade proteins on erythrocytes.


PROCESS FOR GENE INCORPORATION INTO PRECURSOR CELLS (ELECTROPORATION, ETC)

Many methods exist for the incorporation of novel DNA sequences into human
cells: calcium phosphate / DNA method, DNA-ligand methods,
electroporation, glass-bead, gene guns (Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 87 :
9568-72), and cationic lipids (Proc Nat Acad Sci USA 87 : 3655-59). 

Efficiency of incorporation varies from method to method and cell to cell;
additionally, incorporation does not always occur in such a way as enables
expression of the relevant protein, or does occur but in such a way as
somehow damages the existing DNA sequence and subsequent biochemistry of
the cell under modification in a stochastic manner. 

Electroporation has been experimentally shown to have a 2.7% efficiency
when used in transferring genes into human haematopoietic progenitors (for
method see: Toneguzzo, Keating, Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA 83 : 3496-99).
Other more recently developed methods may have higher efficiency but this
has no real significance on the engineering protocol, which necessarily
incorporates processes to select only those cells which have undergone
successful gene transfer.


SELECTION

It is imagined that PCR products will not be incorporated into most cells.
It is expected that they will also be incorrectly incorporated in other
cells, and correctly incorporated in only a few CD34+ cells, the latter in
which we have an interest in subsequent bulk culture.

As such, individual candidate engineered precursor cells must be first be
proliferated in an appropriate atmosphere, temperature regime and growth
medium (a process triggered by, for instance, recombinant human Stem Cell
Factor (see Muta, et. al. Blood, 86, No2, p572-580 1995), and other
colony-stimulating factors such as interleukin-1 and interleukin-3, see
Lemoli et al, Exper. Hematol. 20:569-575, 1992) in small batches, in a
manner which enables these precursors to be kept for subsequent bulk
culture. 

Importantly this also enables some proliferated engineered cells from
known small batches derived from the aforementioned individual cells, to
themselves be proliferated, terminally differentiated (a process triggered
by, for example, granulocyte/macrophage colony stimulating factor, stem
cell factor and a glycoprotein hormone, erythropoietin, see Wu et al,
Cell, Vol83, 59-67, 1995) and analysed for the desired engineered-in
antigenic or other properties, or cultured in bulk for subsequent
transfusion.

If erythrocytes subsequently exhibiting the desired antigen-masquerading
traits are found amongst the progeny of engineered precursors originating
in a specific small batch (see sieving, below), precursors from that
specific batch can be maintained in culture and proliferated by
interleukin-3 mediated self-renewal for many generations (see Lewis, et
al, Cytokine, Vol 10, No 1, p49-54 Jan 1998). From this culture,
occasional aliquots of these precursors can be taken for bulk-culture and
subsequent differentiation into antigen-masquerading erythrocytes.

Batches of precursor cells with progeny not exhibiting desired traits or
failing to exhibit traits typical of fully functional erythrocytes (for
example, a cell which doesn't exhibit correct haemoglobin behaviour)  
should be destroyed.

Sieving: (small batch pre-proliferation and immuno-panning)
 It is imagined that progeny of cells which have successfully taken up the
 gene in question can be expected to express on their surface the
 antigen(s) of interest. These cells can thus be expected to adhere to a
 surface plated with (immunoglobulin or the like) antibody specific to
 these antigens of interest, when washed over such a surface. Cells
 failing to take up and express the antigen of interest would not bind to
 such a surface. Adherent cells would, by their adherence,
 designate the small-batch from which they originated as suitable for
 subsequent bulk culture, proliferation and differentiation.

PROLIFERATION and DIFFERENTIATION

In order to make enough antigen-masquerading erythrocytes to effectively
mop-up blood-borne viral particles, one needs a considerable number (daily
turnover is in the order of 2x10^11/day, half life approximately 120 days)  
of such erythrocytes in the bloodstream. This requires, therefore, bulk
culture proliferation and subsequent differentiation.

The method of Fibach and Rachmilewitz (see: Stem Cells, 1993, 11 (suppl.1)
36-41) appears most suitable for implementation on an industrial scale,
though other methodologies may exist and be superior to it in purity of
product and simplicity of execution.

Cells designated above in the selection and sieving processes as
possessing suitable characteristics for these processes can be
proliferated into large quantities, then signalled to commence
differentiation into erythrocytes.

Cells failing to proliferate (or proliferating without controlled external
stimulus) can be assumed to have incorporated the antigen for masquerade
in such a way as has damaged the cellular growth cycle regulation
systems in unpredictable ways, and such cells should be destroyed.


-DECONTAMINATING MATURE ERYTHROCYTE BATCHES OF ENGINEERED PRECURSORS PRIOR
 TO TRANSFUSION
 
 While this could also be performed by leukopheretic methods, an
 additional selection pressure could be provided by attacking those cells
 which maintained nuclear or mitochondrial infrastructure by application
 of appropriate cytotoxic agents, for example those which induce apoptosis
 (mature erythrocytes cannot apoptose) or block crucial biochemical
 pathways such as mRNA translation (mature erythrocytes synthesise no
 mRNA), protein synthesis (mature erythrocytes lack ribosomes) or
 mitochondrial function (mature erythrocytes lack mitochondria). 

Once remaining precursor cells are destroyed aforementioned toxins are
removed, the antigen-masquerading erythrocytes may be suspended in
preservatives and anticoagulants or the like and transfused into patients
who bear in their blood a viral pathogen whih can now be expected to waste
its time attacking an erythrocyte, which presents to the virus no
machinery for viral replication.

It is expected that the engineered erythrocyte should continue to perform
all the usual tasks of a native erythrocyte.


-ANTIGEN-FREE META-BLOOD (NO Rh, Kell, Duffy, ABO, MRS, GROUP ANTIGENS??)
 (see: liposomes)

It is possible that knockout erythrocytes could be developed which lack
the ability to express these serotype antigens, producing a universally
compatible blood. This might be contraindicated, insofar as some of these
antigens may play important roles, for example in controlling the bulk
viscosity and thixotropic behaviour of erythrocytes and transport of small
molecules such as is thought to be performed for ammonia by the Rhesus
group proteins. It may become possible in future to make bulk quantities
of liposomes bearing antigens of interest.

We feel that the novelty of this invention is not the use of genetic
engineering to "dress up" a cell to appear, antigenically speaking, like
another, as this kind of procedure is likely already widely used. We feel
that the main novelty of this process is the employment of this technique
to redirect a virus particle to invade an naturally occurring and already
denucleated cell which has no internal machinery which the virus might use
for its own replication OR to invade a hostile liposome, which is an
artificially created equivalent. If a virus is induced to invade such
a cell or liposome construct, it is uncoated, its nuclear material is
unlikely to ever be transcribed or translated, and can expect to be
eventually destroyed in splenic phagocytosis which typifies the fate of
the mammalian erythrocyte.


-Future Directions : CELL LINES, STEM CELL CYCLING

It is envisaged that it may be possible to employ (erythropoietin
unregulated) erythrocyte precursors such as those characterised in
polycythaemia vera, as a source of precursors with desirable proliferation
characteristics for in vitro manufacture of aforementioned engineered
erythrocytes.

It is also envisaged that a number of erythroleukaemia tumor cell
lines, if engineered to not only express desirable receptors, but also
engineered to repair their various deficiencies, such as inadequate Ca2+
ion transport, may also be suitable candidates for in vitro bulk culture
of engineered erythrocytes, as would many of their progeny cells.

It is also envisaged that non-oncogenic erythropoietic cell lines, notably
stem cells, could be engineered to produce erythrocytes bearing antigens
of relevance for a given antigen masquerade application.


Learning from resistance
--------------------------
Viruses have historically become resistant to protease inhibitors, chain
terminators and numerous other agents; they can also be expected to become
resistant to those agents which make their replication more error prone,
since some progeny may possess naturally less affinity for those
error-inducing agents, before the agent has time to destroy the precursor
generation which gave rise to it as a result of the error prone nature of
viral replication.

Another problem which may arise is that the virus adapts in such a way as
enables it to invade CD4+ cells without needing to use the CD4+ receptor,
it instead becomes specific for the other orphan receptors on the T-cell.


It might be that the HIV virus' preference for receptors can be directed
in such a way that its specificity is totally misdirected away from
antigens specific CD4+ T-cells. It is important that if this is the case
the virus' evolution is directed away from other immunosystemic
components. It is unlikely to be quite as problematic if trained to attack
other cells, since in this case the usual immunological responses can
still occur.

It is anticipated that this technique may be useful to direct the
evolution of other viruses into host-favourable dead ends.


We feel this is useful because:

0) HIV damages the human immune system and renders humans
   fatally susceptable to otherwise trivial pathogens.
   
1) Vaccines are not effective in cases where a virus has already been 
   contracted.

2) Whereas most current treatments for the HIV-AIDS involve DNA analogues
   or protease inhibitors to which the virus gradually evolves resistance,
   the evolutionary pressure provided by this treatment directs the
   virus to become less virulent - in the case of human immunovirus, for
   example, it directs the virus to become less specific for the cell to
   which it is best adapted, through the destruction of which it exerts
   its disease process. 

3) Erythrocytes can be made externally from bulk cultures of
   engineered precursor cells, from tissue which is known to have no
   immune rejection problems upon reintroduction into the host. 

4) Can be engineered, cultured and transfused using known and readily
   available technology.




Thoughts on kinetics and dosage titre.
--------------------------------------- 

HIV invasion of leukocytes in liquid is an essentially stochastic process.
In a given volume of liquid there exists some number of viable virus
particles, and some number of susceptible (T) cells.  Due to the
error-prone nature of viral replication not all virus particles released
from infected cells are viable. For pathogenesis, the virus particles need
only successfully infect enough susceptible cells as is required to
provide slightly more than a maintenance population of themselves. Gradual
ablation of CD4+ T-cell titre then begins, auguring secondary pathogenic
disease.

There needs to be a maintained and sufficient concentration of red
herrings in the bloodstream that the maintenance population of virus
gradually decays to levels undetectable by sensitive assays such as PCR.
This concentration needs to be experimentally determined. The engineered
cells would still perform their usual task of oxygen transport and are not
anticipated to exert any additional effects outside of their usual roles,
however this also needs experimental certification.

Problematic viral latency can be dealt with by immunosuppressive therapy
and other immune system compromising agents (starvation, etc)  at the same
time as infusion with antigen-masquerade erythrocytes, which can be
expected to enable latently infected cells to become active and spill
their load of virus particles straight into the waiting decoys. This would
typically be done at times of low or no detectable viral load.


Additional theoretical applications of antigen masquerading
-------------------------------------------------------------

1) Liposomes could be constructed bearing pertinent antigens on their
surface, such as CD4+ (and / or other antigens known to mediate 
endocytosis of pathogens into normal cells), in such a way as enables viri
to invade the liposome. The liposome could be constructed to contain
substances deleterious to the nuclear material of the virus, for example,
RNAses or DNAses.

2) Actual live pathogenic viruses could have their specificity changed to
enable them to attack deleterious cells in vivo. For example, were the HIV
virus to be engineered to express a coat glycoprotein or other cell
surface molecule which was specific to some kind of receptor on the
surface of oncogenic cells, it is imagined that such tumor cells would
then be targeted for invasion by the engineered virus and destroyed by the
usual viral replication processes and lysis-mediated release of progeny,
these progeny would also be pathogenic for other tumor cells. Again, this
could be a self-limiting process, the virus would eventually deplete its
host of (cancerous) cells to invade, thereby extinguishing its own
pathogenic process. It is not envisaged that this engineered pathogen
would acquire specificity to CD4+ T-cells but this would need extensive
testing.

