File: powerstation.txt
Cont: Criminal trespass, sexual references. Based on actual occurences.
      Underlying emotional dynamics between the participants are not addressed. 
Warn: If you are offended by explicit sexual imagery, or suggestions of 
      criminal acts, please consider that this document may offend you or
      modify your opinion in unpredictable ways.
Date: 18 Nov 02000
By  : <p r e d a t o r>


Sullen rain had spiralled disinterestedly onto Sydney all week. Friday
arrived, and as I pedalled my bicycle from Glebe to Balmain, it fell upon
me too, just enough to make me damp but not enough to dissipate the heat
generated by riding up steep hills and pedalling furiously on arterial
roads to avoid homicidal speeding cars. Additional effort was required to
move my backpack, as it held a bunch of books for Tig, a blanket, a few
torches, assorted bits of rope and some clothes; their weight all took a
toll on a body accustomed to riding a bicycle without a large additional
burden of shoulder-borne junk. I clawed my way up Victoria Road in low
gear.

Tig and I had met at a birthday party a few months previous, and had
communicated by email frequently thereafter. It happened that she was in
the process of re-organising her life's priorities; I was apparently of
some use to her in wading through some of the issues, most of which I
thought she'd waded through most adequately already on her own; until we'd
discussed things she hadn't quite decided to implement some of the larger
changes. We chatted equally easily about items of casual shared interest
and unashamedly about more conventionally private subjects; we knew a
definate carnal ache for each other, and despite the widespread human
tendancy to want possession of one's article of desire, we had already
reached an understanding of humanity which freed us of the compulsion to
want to control or restrict one another, as one might in any kind of
conventional paired relationship. We would let each other come and go as
we pleased, a rare and valuable freedom in an age where so many things,
even people, are so often treated as commodities to be owned, a tendancy
reflected in the jealous, touchy nature of their relationships.

She lived in a house amidst some tensions between the other occupants, two
of whom also, for not fundamentally different reasons, took issue with my
being there. Given this, we'd had to experience our intimate hours
elsewhere; I also lacked a functional domicile - it was littered with
computer guts, a tribe of feral cats, an epileptic dog and the emotional
detritus of the other occupant. It served as a place to crash, but not
really a place to _live_ in the fuller sense of the word. So, like some
odd sort of homeless fugitives we resorted to discreet cliffsides and
derilect buildings for our closer moments together. We were the sort of
people your parents warned you about - the kind of wierdos you might catch
"doing it" somewhere in public, but this didn't present any problem, and
in a way served to augment the raw nature of the friendship. Here we are,
as we are, deal with it.

In one of my emails I'd suggested the possibilty of exploring a nearby
abandoned industrial relic - the old power station at White Bay. You
couldn't imagine a greater contrast to our last public outing; the Royal
Botanic Gardens was a place of sunlight, chirping birds, of green life and
lush growth, maintained for a public which was encouraged to visit. The
old station, now decontaminated, was thoroughly locked down; a sprawling
centagenarian acreage of rust, broken glass, cement, corrugated iron and
dark spaces, a multistorey labyrinth of winding corridors and strange
rooms and even stranger machinery, most of which was incomprehensible to
casual inspection. I was unsure why, but didn't particularly care why when
Tig accepted the invite. I was delighted; almost broke, but trespass is
cheap, and the public should have access to something they paid for
anyway, so why not?
 
We met, set off and, predictably, it started to rain as we walked along
the streets. It unexpectedly stopped raining so we kept walking,
eventually reaching the road which ran downhill to the station. Even clad
in decrepitude it is still impressive, the great chimneys thrust skyward,
the sheer bulk of the place dominating the waterfrontage upon which it
sits. I looked at the demountable sheds adjacent to the fence, they
appeared occupied so I assumed there was some sort of security onsite. I
could see new padlocks and hasps on the shaft entrance to the long,
half-flooded subterranean cable tunnel where the Clan did their ACA
interview earlier this year. I could not, however, think of a good reason
why guards would bother to peruse the premises _today_, or if they did,
why they'd have any real chance of finding us specifically in the complex.

There was poetry cut into a nearby steel fence with an acetylene torch,
aahhh, a fine start to a remarkable day. We approached the station,
jumping a railing together; Tig waited while I jumped another fence,
ran down and checked out the access. The huge rollerdoor entrance to the
turbine gallery had been closed; Most of the other ground-level doors have
been bricked-up or welded closed with sheet steel, those that haven't are
secured well enough to be unopenable from the outside. I decided on
another entrance which would bring us out between the turbine gallery and
some of the transformer alcoves and circuit-breaker halls.

Tig jumped the second fence and we went together down, via a slightly
tricky climb, to the low cable tunnel under the administration wing. I
rolled back the rusting cyclone mesh and she wiggled under it, I followed
her through. We were out of sight, now; the tunnel was dingy and carpetted
with tree roots and dirt, and the decaying remains of transformers sat in
the tunnel, blocking much of it but permitting access nevertheless. Tig
waited while I checked this tunnel too, I didn't know if it was a blind
corridor. As it turned out, it was indeed blind, but a vicious kick to the
cladding restored its sight in short order, so we waddled through the
tunnel to the newly accessible end. I encouraged her to look through a
hole in the wall, into the turbine gallery, to see where we eventually
hoped to be. A little wriggling through the shattered barrier, and we
emerged on the other side.

"You can't escape advertising." she remarked disapprovingly upon seeing an
A-frame beer advert on the other side of the cable tunnel. It had started
raining again. The other rollerdoor below us was shut too - so we couldn't
climb down and reliably expect to enter through there either. It looked
like someone had gone to considerable and recent effort to lock the place
down. Tig waited while I tried a couple of sealed windows and doors -
all locked and too exposed to really go to work on. I spotted an open door
to the transformer emulsifier room, so I decided to chimney down two
storeys between a smooth concrete wall and a rough-hewn sandstone siding.
Tig was a bit scared during the climb down but tackled it competantly
and uncomplainingly, and was relieved and happy to be off the cliffside
via a short piggyback on my shoulders.

The emulsifier room went nowhere. The adjacent portal was closed by a
heavy timber beam nailed to both doors. The windows had strip metal welded
across them. It all looked pretty grim. Just around the corner, atop some
concrete cable trays, was a leaf-strewn cable port, not much more than
five by twelve inches. I gave it a go, and fit through with some
squirming. Tig, with broad hips and an aesthetically most pleasing
upper body, needed to distort herself a little more to make it into the
building; thus inside, enveloped in classically damp gloom, we
straightened our clothing and unpacked our torches.

We had entered the basement of the circuit breaker section, which had
long been gutted of its equipment. We ascended the stairs and discovered
shiny, new, restricted-broach, brass padlocks on all of the red,
heavy-mesh doors leading into the staircase. We made it to the top level
of the staircase. "Why do they bother?" I complained at length to Tig
with dry resignation as I kicked a handy bit of pipe off the wall and,
with the ease of needlessly long experience, torsion-ruptured the shackle
of the lock with it. "They must know by now that people are going to get
in eventually." I buried the broken components in a nearby pile of wet
dirt beneath a frond of ivy dangling in through the broken window, and
opened the door with an gratuitous theatrical flourish. "Public access to
public works." 

We wandered through the rooms and passed arrayed vertical concrete
rackings, with the heavy cabling and switchgear conspicuously absent. The
top level led directly to the switchyard control room; our progress was
briefly impeded by a door which had become wet, swollen and stuck in its
jamb, I gently prised it open. There was a new lock on the door to the
control room, which had withstood attempts at removal; the corridor was
covered in the decerebrate scribble of mindless aerosol spraypaint
vandals. We looked through the door to the control room, observing the
sprawl of gagues and meters and other incomprehensible indicators at the
monitoring station, and then decided to head downstairs to the room below.

We crept into the space quietly, and walked around it slowly, making only
an occasional clang as a metal plate shifted under footfall. It was a
similar size to the control room above but much darker, lacking the
idiotic graffiti of the space above, and centrally filled by
floor-to-ceiling cable racking, bedecked with kilometers of cable, with
rigid engineering "dress" and meticulous attention to detail. The grey
midday gloom filtered in through the windows only to be largely absorbed
by large panels densely adorned with fuses and meters and numerous
additional and mysterious doodads.

We walked along a short corridor, walls clad with row upon row of gleaming
copper pipe, which ended in one of those oddities typical to the station -
a corner leading to an open drop to the ground two stories below, with a
safety bannister installed only as an afterthought. We returned to the
radially-arranged columns of racking, and I stood amongst it, looking at
the mercilessly functional, yet delicately arranged electrical plumbing.

Tig followed me, I saw her looking at the layout of the system, soaking in
the still, quiet, spacious but nevertheless confined atmosphere of the
room, as must anyone who enters it. There we were, deep in the skull of
the long-dead industrial dinosaur, swaddled in dim silence and the strange
ambience of a place which was designed for anything other than what we
were intending to do. She faced me with _that_ face, eyes dilated and
pointed inquisitively at mine, smiling slightly, framed in short lanks of
staight hair - our fingers touched, insistently, the first few steps in a
long and most enjoyable dance. I observed her fingerprints closely, and
their equivalents on her palms, noticing the way they wrapped around her
digits. I inhaled sharply, could keenly smell her damp, faintly fragrant
sweat against the dry, dead local air... ohhhhh.

Tig is, topologically and in many other aspects of embodiment, almost
hurtingly delicious, in much the same way as an rich, sweet morsel of food
initially shocks the unprepared tongue almost to the point of recoil. I am
oddly attracted by her symmetrically protruding collarbones, I just cannot
help but want to nestle into her supple neck, to press my closed eyelids
upon its soft surface, to plant gentle kisses or maybe teeth upon it, to
filter my breath through her hair, to cup a hand close to her face, not so
close as can be felt but close enough to sense the warmth radiating off
her, to hold her close, and be held closely by her... I cannot do all of
these things at once, and at such times envy the octopus its arms, but
this just make us do things one at a time, letting us pay more attention
to each little touch, each slight movement. 

Standing, she held me to her, I tensed against her, I felt the warmth of
her contact on my shirt; she's figured out this distractingly enjoyable
trick of pressing against me then standing on tiptoes, which grinds her
mound against my inevitably stiffening dick as she slides her tongue into
my mouth. Then she stands normally, then gets on tiptoes again. I cannot
decide to which end to pay attention, and oscillate between them,
pleasurably confused.

The shelves and racking were close and confining, there was no room to
really do anything here except bark our elbows and add to each other's
anticipation of whatever was to come. So we emerged from the racking and
walked around the back of it. We have all, it seems, inherited from our
evolutionary history a method of finding the most secluded place in a
given location, and we chose a spot a few degrees out of line-of-sight
from the access staircase to lay out the blanket which had added such bulk
to the backpack.

"D'ya want a cone?" Tig enquired. "Nah thanks, I'd rather go into this on
an even keel." Then she asked if I would like a massage, an offer I
accepted with a calm made possible only by a significant effort of will. I
retrieved the massage oil from my backpack and she suggested I take my
clothes off and get under one half of the blanket to prevent my becoming
cold. I slid 'em off and dumped them on the adjacent concrete. She removed
the lid, and asked me to lie face down, which was not entirely comfortable
given the attentive state of my penis. She sat on my bum, aggravating this
discomfort slightly but not without a side-effect of pleasurable pressure.

Taking a squirt of scented oil into her hands she started the rub,
placing her palms upon me, driving the heels of her hands up along my
spine, reaching my shoulders turning around to drag her fingers down to
somewhere adjacent to my kidneys, then back up my flanks to the shoulders
again. Sometimes she'd stray deliberately down my arms, or up the back of 
my neck, into the tied-back rope of hair at the back of my head. A few
minutes of this made me groan at a low rumble, pleasurably relaxed; She
asked if I wanted her to repeat the effort on the front, a question which 
hardly needed asking. She stood and I rolled upright; Tig dragged some
of the blanket over me, covering me from the navel down, before sitting on
me again, placing her weight on my upper thighs. She poured more oil upon
me, I felt the cold drops sucking the heat out of little patches of my
chest, in contrast to her hands which warmly followed. 

She was still clad, her shirt clinging to her. I'm pretty lean, covered in
little lumps of muscle and sinew, rows of ribs clearly visible. The
pressure changes as her warm fingers moved over ridges of meat and bone,
the faint tickling as the pads of them rambled across my nipples, up my
armpits... far as relaxation went, they served simply to arouse me more.
Fortunately my dick wasn't mashed into the cement this time, and it lay
hard against my belly, occasionally zapping me with a bolt of pleasure
when Tig's hand accidentally-on-purpose went a bit lower down, grazing
my head, making it seep clear pre-come, creating a small sticky puddle on 
my body. 

We were a pleasurable tangle of arms and hands. I looked up at her as she
kneaded my torso. I gently stroked her cheeks, ran my hands up inside her
shirt, gently grasping her rib cage, clenching her body; I removed my
hands and stroked her through her shirt again. It wasn't fair! So I slowly
started removing her shirt. Happily, she seemed to think this was a good
idea and completed the removal for me, and went to the next step, standing
up and taking off her long black pants and lacy black brief. Then, she
resumed her original position, naked. I felt her weight and heat upon me,
my hardon became harder as if sensing the proximity of its complement, and
she continued her massage.

I extended an arm down to her mound, stroking gently and ever more
insistently until four fingers of my hand were flat against her velvet
undersurface, heat seeping from her into my skin. I pressed upwards,
spread my fingers, relaxed and closed them again, a few times, until a wet
flange protruded. I teased it gently, generating appreciative sighs from
its owner as I shallowly inserted one phalange, then another, into Tig's
damp warmth, and moved them gently against the supple walls.

They were coated in thin slime when I retrieved them, just the sort of
stuff which begs to be applied to breasts, so I transferred it to her
nipples. I could just span the distance between them with outstretched
thumb and little finger. She seemed to be paying a lot of attention when I
did this, so I enquired of her that perhaps she'd like a massage, too, and
she decided to accept the offer. I sat up, crossing my legs a bit; she
reclined, her bum planted in my lap, a leg on either side of my hips,
until her shoulders met the floor. The paralleled grooves of her ribs,
narrowing down to her belly; the broad flare of her waist where it blends
into the crests of her hypnotic hips are but a few of her extensive
catalogue of beautiful anatomical shapes, and it was a privilege to
experience them from my particular perspective, as well as being subjected
to their intrinsic provision of an outrageous turn-on. I flung my head in
the manner of heavy-metal head bangers, flogging her body amusedly with my
hair, which wafted the light olfactory notes of her body to me when I
ceased the flogging.

Tig lives in a body which also exhibits what I refer to as clearance.
There's something I find about the gap between the inner, uppermost edges
of a woman's thighs which makes me hard even trying not to think about it.
Perhaps it appeals to my evolutionarily moulded brain as a suggestion of
dimensionality common to more fecund pelves. I simply know I like
clearance, and as it happens, she's got a lot of it, and it mercilessly
arouses me. Those of us with no time for theory and more time for practise
might put it more simply - clearance harbours cunt. Topped by a cropped
tuft of bristly straw-brown hair, folded and engorged, it glistened before
me, its warm, faintly earthen scent borne upwards on the air warmed by her
body, and I breathed it in consciously, as if to deliberately absorb it
into myself, to incorporate it into my chemistry. I imagine were this
scent to be bottled there would be widespread rioting to obtain it, and
hoardes of men addicted to it. Perhaps in some ways this is already the
case.

I dragged my forehead down her axis, inserting a tongue in her natal scar
momentarily as I continued descent. One of the redeeming features of
a beard is that it accommodates the wearer's face to the abrasion of
stiff, short hair, such as Tig's pubics, into which I gradually nuzzled. I
breathed nasally, inhaling more of her warm, damp, earthen must, as I
rested my nose on her mound, parted the smooth curtains, and lingually
explored her warm, inviting portal. Moving upwards, I met a smooth, partly
shrouded bulb amidst the crux of folds, and moved it gently with the tip
of my tongue; It moved deftly away, defying captivation, and I configured
my lips to gently suck it, whereupon Tig asked me to cease.

"I have a fear of someone biting off my clitoris."

I was slightly surprised, but I understood; it's all a matter of trust. I
don't know what it says about men, but everywhere they insert their
precious members into the enticing maw of what is, in the final analysis,
a pair of heavily muscled, horizontally opposed, sharp bladed biting
weapons, evolved with such leverage as renders them capable of exerting
tonnes of focussed shearing or crushing pressure per square millimetre.
Lemming-like, we do this, totally (and justifiably) entranced by the
promise of warm, tactile wetness within, on the understanding that the
receptive owners will not simply flex their jaws and inflict indescribable
pain, horrific damage and permanent incapacity. Maybe the Swords (Jaws?)
of Damocles aspect is part of the fun for some of them, but it isn't for
me. To conceive of such a wound is viscerally scary. The medical journals
are replete with case studies of reconstructive procedures, none of which
return the instrument to its original function, and which induce winces in
me when I read them. I find a little dentition applied in the right place
is fine on a fairly supple sausage, but on its mucosally shrouded and
significantly sensitive counterpart, I must simply respect the owner's
opinion and refrain, as delicate and subtly a dish as it might be. I would
continue in a less delicate territory.

I dribbled some oil onto her body and began to rub her frontal surfaces
with my palms and fingertips; all the while drinking in her contours. Her
shoulders and neck were pliant under the gentle application of fingers,
she giggled a little when I dragged my fingers through her short curly
patches of axillar hair, which were also arousingly fragrant when close
enough to sample with a subsequently salty tongue.

Her forearms are lacerated lengthways; her body, her legs and her face all
bear the insignia of a pointed investigation of herself, which she
instigated in trying circumstances a few years back; rich in collagen,
firm beneath my fingers as they traverse her surfaces - I can feel the
ridges of the scars which, like many parts of Tig, have more resilience
than whatever they replaced.

I think, aside from giving tactile stimulation to the recipient, half the
point of giving massage is to learn their shape and texture, reading them
as one's eyes might survey a landscape. I had to direct attention from
elsewhere to do this, but I absorbed many of her corporeal
idiosyncracies... velvetty hair, stiff hair, wrinkles here, resistance
there, broad areas of smoothness, differences in temperature, tone of
subdermal muscularity, bunched strands of tendons, the slightly
accelerated cardiac thudding of a body in a state of apprehension and
readiness, the small hollow of her navel, the bands of muscle, hot mobile
coils of gut behind her abdominal wall, adipose tissue distributed in
thin, even sheets or pleasant curves, a slightly lumpy ridge of bone down
the front of her lower legs. There is much of a body's history to be had
from a careful reading of its casing, but I wasn't being thorough, instead
making a sample in a mild state of urgency, like a child in a garden for
the first time might stroke the leaves, paw the earth, stick its nose in
whatever flowers were handy, but doing so hurriedly in the knowledge that
there was fun to be had soon in the watermelon patch.

My fingers confirmed what my half-addicted eyes already knew. Tig bears
exuberantly beautiful nipples. I cannot help but stupidly envy them even
in the full knowledge I don't even have any worthwhile breasts to put them
on. Each crowns an ample, but not excessive swelling, a which bears a
classic line starting at her clavicles and sweeping gently outward while
descending her chest, only to return to her ribcage in a pendular
hemisphere. I cannot convey their symmetry and beauty in something as
vulgar as English, and the molecular trickery which gave rise to them
couldn't begin to convey their pleasurable aesthetics. They can, like a
delicate scent or a fine passage of music, only be appreciated by direct
experience.

"I inherited them from my mother" she said, and I was instantly grateful
to whomever bore her for passing on to Tig whatever genes encoded the
delicate, pink and sharply pronounced items now tantalisingly before me.
She mentioned that until she had them pierced, they were inverted. In
their state of strident protrusion I couldn't imagine this, it contrasted
too much with the pouting reality. There on the sides of each, though, was
the faint scar of a piercing. "They're pretty sensitive." she said. Her
eyes closed and face wore a light scowl as she concentrated on the signals
they sent her as I lightly abraded them with prints of my oiled palms.

"Come forward, then." I said. She tensioned her gut and sat upright upon
my thighs.

I raised my hands reverently, placing them on her pectorals, then
guided them down the gentle cusps. Tig exhaled shallowly. They were warm
and firm; all the limp metaphorical cliches to do with fruit lack the
colour and texture and nuances of the actual articles, and deserve all the
derision they get.

She breathed deeply. "Would you suck them? That's one of the ways to
induce orgasm in the Tig."

I took great fistfulls of my soft blonde curls and rubbed her breasts with
them, but she liked mainly that her beautiful nipples be sucked, so I took
each of them into my mouth in turn, Tig pressing me towards her, forcing
them into my face. They were stiff enough to provide considerable
resistance to my tongue as I licked them, moving with a distinct twang in
order to re-centre themselves. Thus it was necessary to gently apply teeth
to the annular base of each, which seemed to engross Tig further.

<at this stage the narrator is compelled to masturbate to orgasm in order
to relieve the discomfort of a laptop and a hardon wanting to be in the
same place. Sticky keyboards here we cum.>

How shall I love thee? Let me count the ways, but not straightaways. A
little back rub perhaps? I reclined, pulling her down towards me, and
dribbled more oil onto her back. I liked very much being her massage
table, and she lay atop me as I rubbed the oil as far as my arms would
reach - from the soft nape of her neck, down along her sides or back, to
the rise of her hips, down as far as her strangely cold but beautifully
sculpted bum. There is a faint, speckled birthmark, undetectable to the
fingers, on her right trapezius; also on her spine, a tattoo of a splayed
squatting woman, ancient and mysterious bearer of secrets and magic,
Sila-na-Joss, which, if one feels carefully enough, is faintly readable by
touch alone.

She lay on me, I rubbed her body with my hands, and she rocked herself
gently against the subsequently sandwiched stiffness.

Both of us becoming upright again, she held my vertical shaft between her
moist outer lips, and slid her little bud slowly but forcefully up and
down against it, each time mashing her short-cropped thatch of crisp pubic
hair into my glans, making it itch delightfully. Her nipples travelled
similarly, except trapped between my fingers, rubbing their edges and
rebounding off the interdigital webs where my digits joined. I glanced
down and noticed my dick was sort of purple, its vascular plumbing
standing out on its surface, the shaft cloaked in her labia, both of us
oozing lube in copious quantites.

There's a venous penis in-between-us, I thought, but I kept this asinine
assonance to myself for the time being.

She started to move up and down with more vehement regularly.

"I want you to fuck me." she breathed in my ear.

"Mmmm. I can do that." I replied as she continued her increasingly
frenzied calisthenics. "Don't dare let me be inside you without a
raincoat" I mentioned, though I and any human with a pulse would be sorely
tempted otherwise. The ride continued for a while, but I approached the
brink, and not wanting to squirt a load of highly accelerated, viscous
white goo betwixt us, had to be still, and despite our bodies wanting
proximity we nevertheless managed to separate. There was a faint sucking
sound from her self-lubricated notch, and my prong slapped against my
abdomen as we decoupled - somehow, she'd been holding on to me! We stood,
and hugged tightly standing up.

She turned and stretched forward, again exposing to me the amazingly
supple configuration of her lithe body. Her hands touched the floor, I
stood close behind her, my extrusion straining upwards against the doors
to her moist temple.

Distractedly I sent one hand to feel in the top of the backpack for a
condom and some lube, and meantime she went to work on my elongation
again. She took the sheath from its packet, and rolled it onto my hardon,
then smeared some lube onto it, spreadding it over the latex with her
fingers.

I sat on the rug again with my legs crossed. She sat, facing me, in the
bowl of my lap, then reclined, supporting herself on one arm as she fed me
slowly into her wetness. Her enveloping warmth surrounded my cock, I felt
the exquisite heat and pressure change creep down my shaft as she took
more of me into her. She was looking decidedly aroused by now. I reclined
and brought my legs together, and she resumed her original vertical
motions.

"Stay still." She whispered urgently. Half uncomprehending, I didn't hear
her. "Stay still!" she said again, and I did. Coupled solidly to the
concrete below, she could pilot me as she chose, to her own rhythym,
a forceful one, which was accelerating. I found one of the aforementioned
magnificent tits in front of my face, and closed my lips around it with
slight suction, sometimes flicking the taut knob with my tongue, other
times grasping it lightly with the less yielding surface of my teeth.

I was surprised she arrived so quickly, I'm sure I wasn't inside Tig for
more than a couple of minutes. I'm never sure if I'm being faked-on or
not. Some signals are hard to fake, the twitching of the sartorius muscles
particularly, but I couldn't tell if that'd happened. I didn't much care,
though, trusting that Tig would ask for what she wanted, and if it was
orgasm she wanted, then that's what she would obtain for herself, which
was evidently pleasing to us both

"OH!... _fuck_," she spat, and inhaled urgently, throwing herself down
upon me, panting in the throes of a convincingly sincere and thorough
orgasm. She lay upon me, shaking, breathing hard, clasping me to her. I
remained firmly embedded in Tig, watching her recover from her climax.

I hadn't come, my rubber-clad hardon was still primed and glistened
faintly, coated in Tig's slime. We lay there for a while as Tig composed
herself.

She climbed off me, rolled over and had reclined invitingly, and I had
knelt between her legs, rigid, poised to gently enter her again, when I
thought I heard voices. "Did you hear that?" I asked. She didn't need to
answer - the voices spoke again... the relaxed banter of people working,
walking along the corridor, checking the door to the control room above
us, chatting about graffiti. It echoed down the corridors and into our
dark, industrial boudoir. They were growing rapidly louder, coming closer.

"Guards! FUCK! I don't fucking believe it!! Here? Now? FUCK! Quick, hide,
clothes on!" There ensued a frantic rush to go from naked humans fucking,
to clothed humans and their luggage hiding; a rush made more frantic by
the need to do everything silently, lest we provoke the direct attention
of the guards. Tig didn't seem particularly ruffled, she calmly and
efficiently slid back into her clothing; for my part, long experience with
security pests demanded all of my systems snap into high gear, since these
quasi-cops can really ruin your day in a variety of ways. My adrenals
started dumping chemicals into my bloodstream, I rammed as much stuff into
the pack as I could, and leaped into my jeans. I cursed my boots for their
propensity to clomp when walking on hard surfaces; my socks were damp,
which would leave footprints, so I stayed in bare feet.

"I don't fucking believe it! Shit!" I said more to myself than to Tig. 

"Why I'm worried is, guards these days, they're often unpredictable. They
might decide they want to fuck you. Or me. Or beat us up. Or whatever. And
there's fucking nowhere to run!"

Apart from the cover provided by the racking and instrumentation panels,
we were highly exposed. We hid as best we could; it would be obvious to
anyone who looked at us that we were in that flushed and dishevelled state
immediately synonymous with recent shaggery.

More noises of doors being experimentally opened upstairs, and closed
again with a slam, and locks being checked, filtered down to us. I was
glad I hadn't destroyed the stuck door, or prised the hasp off the control
room door. I worried sharply that they'd notice our wet footprints.

The voices grew louder and, significantly, there came the sound of feet
descending the stairs to our room.

There was a snap, followed by a soft series of hums and tinkles as
fluorescent strip lights came on. "I didn't know this place had lights!" I
whispered to Tig. Harsh blue glare flooded the room. Now not even the
darkness could shield us. It would be seconds until they walked around the
back of the racking to inspect the rear door, and found us instead,
cannabis-carrying trespassers with break-and-enter tools.

A loud male voice spoke again. "Nah's, no graffiti down here." 

"Yeah, right... they probably haven't been in here then. Shut the
doors."

The lights suddenly went out.

There was a loud slam as the louvred doors were closed, the snap of a
latch and the tinkle of keys. Footstep noises receded up the stairway with
more talking. Finally, the quiet gloom returned, as if it had never been
disturbed.

"Talk about coitus fuckin' interruptus! Good thing you came when you did."

Tig laughed, agreeing with a high-pitched, whooping giggle, but quieter
than usual, intentionally stifled. I checked my watch, we'd been making
love there for a little over ninety minutes, since we entered the building
at noon and it was now about two p.m. With the guards gone, satisfied that
the room was in order, it was unlikely they'd return for some days. The
tyrrany of industrial time held no jurisdiction over us, however.

It took a little while to regain composure. If there's anything which
kills hardons, it's bald, undiluted fear. I hadn't even taken the condom
off, and it clung to me, limp and wrinkled. 

Tig was amused, wondering what it would be like for the guards to be on
their rounds and stubling in upon a couple of hippies fucking. "Good thing
we didn't have that cone." She said. I agreed - the smell of it, the oil,
and our bodies would have surely alerted them to our presence. And
probably rendered us incapable of cogent action and rapid stashing of
ourselves in the least exposed place.

"Maybe they've locked us in." I said. I sprung over to the lower staircase
and inspected the lock, which was fortunately keyed on the other side. I
listened carefully - prolonged silence.

Through the louvred doors I saw the fresh footprints on the stairs, with
large, fresh bubbles of air trapped in them from the churning of water
between the treads during footfall. I looked back to where we were, only
slightly obscured from view by the instrument panelling. They must have
seen us, I thought, but not expecting anyone, their brains failed to pay
any attention to what their eyes were telling them. If we were just a
little less obscured, or the guards had been a teensy bit more thorough,
we'd probably be having our time wasted at taxpayers expense "for" a load
of "crimes" which demonstrably lacked any victims - trespass (in a public
place), possession of a prohibited (and freely available) substance, and
lewd behaviour (which has been practised for thousands of years). Yep,
that would have ruined my day. 

I was still pretty stunned at the disturbance. Must have just been plain
old bad luck.

Satisfied that the goons would not return, we layed out the blanket again.
Tig drained her drink and adjourned for a quick leak, returning with a
sealed bottle full of warmth and dissolved yellow metabolites. Tig lay
down and I sprawled backwards onto her, still whinging about the
interruption.

She took the condom off me and I stashed it discreetly under a steel cover
plate. She perused my tool, taking a little while to find the gentle
change in pigmentation of my circumcision scar. She didn't spot a two-inch
scar near my symphysis where I'd had a hernia repaired several years
before, but it was reasonably well covered by pubic hair, and there were
other things in the region to which she was paying attention.

She moved out from under me and I reclined on the blanket. She took me
into her mouth and gently teased, lightly chewed, tongued, sucked me... I
grew hard again under her fellation. She is very, very, very good at it -
it took a couple of minutes for me to forget the intruders, and once that
frame of mind was gone and replaced with another more conducive to erotic
enjoyment, I forgot about everything else, including, I noticed,
respiration. She destroyed the regularity of my breathing by provoking in
me repeated involuntary shallow gasps of concentrated pleasure. Amidst
this, I could not think straight enough to try and deduce what she was
doing, being myopic I can't see it directly anyway, but nothing appeared
to escape her attentions, from the pointy end of my hardon to my conical
perineal base. "Where's the lube? Oh, here." she said, answering her own
question. I was in the midst of this sequence of captivating,
pleasure-elicited gasps when a sensation previously unbeknownst to me made
its presence felt.

Quite apart from all the penile stimulation, I dimly registered warm
pressure inching ever so gradually down my perineum, and then ever so
gently sliding into my anus. Tig claimed my rectal virginity with gentle,
careful skill. She wriggled gently further into me, her finger ceased its
advance at the inner surface of my sphincter, still moving gently,
tickling yet more nerve endings, making me gasp even harder. Oddly I had
little of the usual reflexive tightening, even as the finger moved and
pressed against my sensitive inner surfaces.

"If ya (gasp) want to tickle (gasp) my prostate, that's (gasp) fine with
me." was the last putatively intelligent thing I said for some time.

I cannot say how much time passed. I was stuck in a reality in which I
could comprehend nothing but the gales of pleasure howling out of my groin
into any nearby neuron. The rest of the universe went away someplace else.
There was just this sensory loop of ever-quickening frequency, gently
exponentiating pleasure, which had Tig and I in it, mainly me on the
receiving end.

I also can't quite confirm how I came to feel how I did. Was I mildly
hypoxic from Tig's pleasure-driven interference with my normal breathing?
Without a doubt. Was I a touch hypothermic from laying on a thin blanket
on a cold cement floor? Somewhat. Was I just flooded with "fight, flee or
fuck" hormones from our excruciatingly near miss with the guards? Full to
the eyeballs. Was I getting an intense sustained signal of extreme
pleasure from everything in bolted into or onto my pelvic floor? Fucking
oath would be a pretty dilute affirmation.

I think I gasped desperately to Tig that "ahhahhahhImgonnacome" but I
can't remember for sure, I was too absorbed in being just about to come. I
remember the tension, the terrible tension, of almost being there for a
few eternal seconds... past the point of inevitability, the pleasure
flooding through me, but not quite into the shattering release when seed
pours into my rod and pulses determinedly out of me. I couldn't think, my
whole brain suddenly and frantically devoted to the job of experiencing
the moment. I can only remember little bits, as one might when repeatedly
hit by lightning.

I .  .  .  . uhh.  .  .  . UNH!. . .  came, and CAME and _CAME_!, and
*CAME!* (etc etc etc etc) weakly sighing and spastically gasping for air
while my balls drew up to my body and my hardon violently and repeatedly
twitched inside Tig's skull, hosing her throat with the nucleotidyl
essence of my being. I might have screamed, had I the air; I might have
died, I wouldn't care. 

Tig didn't move very much, but even the very slightest, tiny movement was
extremely pleasurable, but to the point of actual real pain. "Doannnmoove"
I gurgled. Thankfully she didn't move, maybe I'd have recoiled from her or
thrust upwards into her or whatever else one does when one has something
feeling like electricity applied to one's penis (none of that pissy DC
battery stuff, mind you, I'm talking rectified industrial three-phase
mains here), or maybe embedded directly in the pleasure centres of one's
sensory cortex. It was concentrated and exquisite. Please, seek someone
who claims proficiency in the art of fellatio and solicit from them this
priceless experience. Do it now. It will atomise your fucking brain, the
searing heat will brand you forever. If it doesn't, keep looking until you
find someone who can arrange that it does. You must. You owe yourself this
at least once.

I was stunned for a long time, still not able to breathe properly, taking
air in shallow gasps, my body shivering slightly, covered with goosebumps.
My legs and arms were actually tingling. I couldn't really think very
coherently but odd stuff floated through my head like .... other humans
*must* be exposed to this for their own good... I can die happy now I know
what it is like to be actually sucked senseless. Numerous expressions made
it halfway to my face before being overwritten by new ones, resulting in
an patchwork countenance of gratitude, incredulity, bliss and euphoria.
Symptomatically I closely matched an individual in shock, and was glad to
have Tig's proximal warmth to which to cling. I discovered I could see
again. She lay beside me grinning blissfully, cradling me, I suspect in
the knowledge that she was well aware of what she'd done.

"I really like to give people pleasure." Tig mentioned, in the event that
I hadn't noticed that already. 

I nodded weakly and remembered I could still speak. "Yeah." Cough. "Yeah."

"I'm getting better as I get older." she said.

I processed this comment as I lay beside her, dazed as a depth-charged
jellyfish. The mere concept was frightening.

"There's gonna be a news report in ten years - `man's charred body found
in smoking crater in residential building, dishevelled woman observed
leaving the premises.' and that'll be you." I noted dryly.

We chatted about other stuff too, but I can't dig it out of what's left
of my brain, which will hopefully regrow in a few months.

I was cold, spent, naked, vulnerable, and wanted immersion in the
comforting arms of another human. "Gimme a hug.." I said. She lay atop me,
full-length. I liked the feel of her weight upon me entirely, a warm
enveloping from lower leg to the top of my ears. 

There were more noises outside, and although innocuous, prompted me to
suggest that we depart.

We stood to leave, and I noticed we'd left a warm spot in the cement.
We put our clothing back on, shoved things into the pack. 

I was unspeakably happy. Gobsmacked is another word which came to mind at
the time. There is a small bit of black and white graffiti on one of the
racks to record the event.

Listening carefully, we approached the louvred doors, and opened them. We
climbed the stairs we'd descended three hours earlier, and arrived at the
graffiti-strewn corridor. There were footprints on the floor, those of the
thankfully slipshod surveillance duo. I looked at them to determine which
way they had departed. I could still hardly believe it that there were two
men standing *here*, totally oblivious our naked, vulnerable and intimate
presence.

We went up and down the stairwell. All of the doors were locked including
the bottom one, which was adjacent to the bottom of the lift shaft, which
was filled with a noisome pool of water capped by an unattractive scum of
buoyant debris. This door, however, had a convenient hole in it,
permitting insertion of an arm to unlatch the lock, thereby gaining us
entry to the bottom floor of another wing of the circuit-breaker and
transformer farm.

The air was musty, the room was dark and mostly empty. The sub-floor cable
duct was flooded, most of the transformers removed, though one four metre
tall circuit breaker remains in position, a huge ceramic and metal
testament to the vast amount of energy which was routed through the place
in its heyday. We tried the door to an empty workshop, which was open;
once we'd explored it we slid another door open to reveal a long alleyway,
still damp from the rain, the railway tracks in the concrete rusted with
disuse. Tig retired momentarily for a leak, while I retrieved a handy
metal pipe for the removal of the next lock. It was chained to a flimsy
handle which was nailed to the door jamb so the simplest approach was to
prise the handle off, leaving the lock and chain undamaged. It never
ceases to amaze me that security people arrange locks for such convenient
removal. The wire mesh gate swung open and we strode into the secondary
object of our interest - the main stage of the power station.

We passed a row of red CO2 cylinders and stepped through a crowded
corridor, eventually reaching a set of stairs. We ascended them carefully,
observing the ancient metalwork and large scale plumbing, huge valves and
support beams. We ascended further and could observe an enormous Parsons
steam turbine underpinned by a similarly enormous heat exchanger; Both
were ludicrously reinforced, designed to confine and funnel monstrous
energies with the dependably brutal indifference of several hundred tonnes
of cast iron.

It sat, impassive and uncaring, its componentry smelted and machined in
the decades before mankind had split the atom, and hence bearing no
transuranic contaminants. In some senses, it is precision-sculpted ash,
derived from the extinguished stellar nucleosynthetic processes of a star
long dead by the time Earth condensed billions of years ago. Where do I
get a sense of timelessness? From huge dead machinery, forgotten and
abandoned, the deep-frozen blood of the industrial revolution, made of
stuff forged in the fires of dying suns.

We walked around on the turbine deck. The place was quiet except for the
"aaark....  aaaark .....aark" of a crow ten storeys up in the roofing
rafters. Instrument panels were boarded up despite being smashed long
ago. Further wanderings brought us to a corridor with machinery wrapped in
Ilford black plastic film, though for what purpose I could not guess. We
wandered past recently installed brick walls with tree and bottle patterns 
built humourously into the brickwork, and down a staircase to the ground
floor. 

We wanted to get onto the roof, and had discovered someone had sectioned
off the station boilerhouse from the turbine hall. So we went up to the
turbine deck again, and clambered over a fence made of reinforcing mesh,
to the 2nd level boiler deck. We became acquainted with the boiler as we
went up six flights of stairs adjacent to it. The cladding plates and
lagging have been removed from it, exposing its heat exchangers and steam
lines in all their manually crafted glory. It must have held over a
kilotonne of scalding, superheated water when it was running, a quantity I
can scarcely imagine, and where there used to be three other such towering
brutes, there was now only a vast empty volume, bound on two sides by the
windows and walls of the building, bound also by the enormous parabolic
prismatic coal hoppers which fed anthracite into centrifugal ball mills
several levels below us, and also capped in a cement slab roof.

Arriving at the top of the boiler we walked around past another stairwell
to yet another flight of stairs, leading to the rusting gantries adjacent
to the travelling coal conveyors, perched high above the aforementioned
hoppers. Parts of the gantry were encrusted in old guano made mushy by the
rain, and as we approached, pigeons flapped away from us, becoming
airborne only to crash stupidly into parts of the immediately adjacent
roof.

We reached a window and stepped out of it, onto part of the roof above the
boiler control rooms far below. From there it was a short climb to the
uppermost roof, with its small water tanks mounted on stands above holes
through which used to be feed pipes. Peering through one of these holes
Tig could see the huge drop below us. I had woken on this roof on the
first day of January 2000, with Hatchet, and our white pen graffiti to
commemorate the dawn remained visible on one of the tanks.

Uncustomarily it was sunny; the roof had dried enough to permit us to lie
upon it, and partly on each other, so we did. I was dazzled by the light
and heat after the cold, dark confines of the station. Tig and I chatted
further about the sequence of events, bits of our life history and the
events which shaped us, the architecture of the nearby Anzac Bridge (which
I have also explored), the circles in which we moved and the circumstances
which brought us together, and lots of other things. 

Tig was grateful for the tour, and considered that she would return there
to photograph some of the things she'd seen on the day.

I was throbbing with happiness, the universe had conspired to bring me
here to experience these great things, the view, the recent exchange of
gifts, the companionship and conversation, a feeling that I'd found a
treasure so good as to be impossible to keep to oneself. I struggle to fit
the sharp intensity of these feelings into English. It is a competant
language and I am a competant user thereof, yet, my words are a dilute
record of the actual events.


It started to rain again so we decided to get off the roof and leave the
station. We were getting hungry, too, and there wasn't much in the way of
nosh in the station. So we started the long trip down, eventually arriving
at the boilerhouse ground floor. A conveninent pry-bar revealed itself and
enabled the decommisioning of one of the locks on a gate separating us
from the turbine hall. We played for a minute with a large heavy steel
ball from a crushing-mill, then walked over to a likely exit at the south
end of the vast building.

I removed large pin and pulled on the doors, each pull moving them a
little bit with the elegant grace of a ponderous mass pivoting in
accustomed unhurriedness on heavy hinges. Tig stood adjacent to me, framed
in the doorway. A voice said "Hello." Tig said "Hello" in reply. I walked
through to see a lightly built chap about a foot shorter than I was, in a
blue parka, crisp slacks, and the highly polished black leather shoes
typical of those who believe that shining cowhide bestows authority upon
the wearer. On the parka was a little white embroidered patch, shaped like
a shield, bearing "ULTRA SECURITY" in black capital letters. He spoke
without the confidence of his uniform.

"I'm placing you under citizen's arrest for break and enter, and criminal
trespass. You'll have to wait here until the police arrive."

"Oh! Really!"

The guy was a born interrogator, but harmless enough, so I thought I'd
humour him before we walked off.

"Do you like trespass? Do you trespass often?"

He was obviously ignorant of exactly who I was - an individual who had
illegally explored literally hundreds stormwater drains, bridges, disused
factories, old military bunkers, power cable tunnels, airconditioning
systems, sub-basements - and had started an organisation in Sydney to
encourage others to do the same. I wasn't about to lie to him, though.

"Well, yeah, but I don't do it as often as I used to, 'cos I'm getting
old."

"How would you like it if I broke into your home?"

"Well, that's complicated by the fact that I don't have a home, but sure,
I wouldn't like it, but then you don't live here, and I probably wouldn't
break into your home anyway. By the way, perhaps you can inform me who
actually owns this place."

"Darling Harbour Ports Authority"

"Are they government owned or are they a corporation?"

"I don't know. Where did you get in?" he asked

"Come with me, I'll show you, it's over by the cable tunnel."

He didn't seem interested.

"Why do you do it? What's in there?"

"What? You've never been in there? The view from the top is great, there's
all this ancient machinery, it's really huge, you really ought to check it
out sometime."

"What happens if you get injured or killed?"

"I think you'd have to try pretty hard to kill yourself in there, it's
actually pretty safe." 

We started walking towards our point of entry.

Anyway, the phone on his belt rang. A third party might have noted : The
two lovers confidently strode across the shallow puddles and flattened
rubble to the nearest available point of exit.

We didn't even run. We were about 70 metres away from him before we heard
him call out "Hey! Excuse me!" in a voice made comically faint by his
distance and circumstance. So we climbed over the fence and made it back
onto the little bush regeneration area by the footbridge. "Exuent with
alarums." I said to Tig as I straddled the railing prior to headding up
the footbridge. I thought it best that we keep off the main road so that
any armies of police (which, incidentally, subsequently failed to
materialise) would have a harder time spotting us.

In the back lanes of White Bay I smirked to Tig. "Hey, you're under
arrest, you know, you wierdo criminal you."

"Yeah, crime of the century." She agreed sarcastically.

We were very impressed at the ease of our escape.

"Maybe we should turn ourselves in to the cops. We're technically
fugitives at large." I thought of the guard... poor little guy, he didn't
even try to stop us, we made a mockery of his whole job!"

We arrived at Tig's home, and I was knackered, so I lay on the floor for a
while. Tig disappeared to obtain precursors to dinner, and upon her
reappearance we went to the kitchen, drank red wine and chatted. Tig
cooked some eggplant and generated an excellent soup, I fried some
pappadums but, being a touch famished, I ate many of them before the soup
was complete. I ate hungrily, not having seen an edible morsel for twelve
hours. We popped down to the Cat and Fiddle for a bit of live music and
when we returned I had to succumb to fatigue, slumping onto a bed in the
front room. Tig bid me goodnight with a gentle, heartening and genuine hug
of appreciation.

I was still in the slightly damp clothes to which I am accustomed. The
rain resumed its sullen fall upon the street outside, the sound of tyres
splashing through it making me strangely light of heart as I slowly sank
into the unconsciousness in which I have spent a third of my life. 

I breathed deeply and regularly, and later I found I could not dream.



<p r e d a t o r>
