to: genetic@alrc.gov.au

file: prot_dna.txt
Cont: recommendations to the ALRC concerning issues paper 26.


Re: chapter 4 section 4-3: other aspects of genetic information privacy.

1) this information must be stored and transmitted in encrypted format.
   The preferred encryption system to use is public key cryptography,
   since any centralised data repository, regardless of its sovereign 
   status, can and will become publically available with the stroke of 
   a legislator's pen. See http://www.gnupg.org

   The person from which the DNA originated must use their private 
   encryption key to decrypt information encrypted with their public
   encryption key. Then, they can encrypt it with a research organisation's
   public key, transmit it to the research organisation, who then decrypt
   the data with their private key in one-time-only format.

2) the file storage medium must be known to be able to a) last a long 
   time and b) continue to be a "supported" format for the foreseeable 
   future (that is, not Microsoft formats, which history shows Microsoft
   cease support for, after about 5 years). 

Re : chapter 6 section 6-1: Commercial pressures on researchers.

Nondisclosure agreements are becoming the norm in the genetic research 
field, which means that the information deduced by researchers about the
general nature of genetic information does not become public. This
violates the duty of care commercial researchers have to notify the
public of new cures (etc).


Re: Chapter 7 section 7-5

Individuals should own, outright, their particular copy of their
genome. They should never be charged rent to use it, nor any fragment of
it which some corporation or organisation claims to own. A child becomes
half-owner of each parent's genomic information by default, and full owner
of that set.

Perhaps the best ownership license for inherited and inheritable human
genomic software should be the GNU Public License. See
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
   
Re: Chapter 10: section 10-4

The people in the best position to do serious damage to society are
legislators and judges, and perhaps it is these people who, along with
airline pilots (etc) should be tested.

Re: Chapter 10: section 10-5

An employer should be able to have access to an employee's genetic
information, provided the employee can have equally open access to the
employer's genetic information. This gives each pause for thought
regarding the situation in which each places the other.


Re: Chapter 10: section 10-6

Perhaps Firemen, Soldiers, Police officers, or others at risk of total
destruction in their line of work should be able to be identified from
their genetic remains, hence samples should be taken if offered by the
officer.

Re: Chapter 11: section 11-5:

Insurance companies are professional gamblers. Their push to acquire
genetic information is simply an effort to stack the odds even more in
their favour. I am inclined to deny them access to this information, since
they already do a pretty good job with their actuarial and
statistical data.

Re: Chapter 13: 
What is unfortunate about the situation is that DNA left by someone at the
scene of some action (eg: a public demonstration in a public park) not
deemed to be criminal at the time, but deemed to be criminal later, can be
used to convict people of crimes which did not exist when the DNA was
left at the site.

Further, there is no evidence to suggest total destruction of DNA samples
will ever be adequate or complete. 



