From whiz@lava.net Wed Mar 13 17:34:11 2002
Date: Tue, 12 Mar 2002 19:43:35 -0600
From: whiz@lava.net
Reply-To: selfish_genes@yahoogroups.com
To: selfish_genes@yahoogroups.com
Subject: [selfish_genes] Intelligence and the Genetic Basis

I have been reading Energy Resources and Alas Babylon posts for some time
quietly in the background. I have zero inclination to engage in an argument
with someone whose only motivation is to push a political stance. Hence, I
have never posted a message. I sense I may be able to offer something to the
present list without being subjected to such a political tirade.

The subject of the list is evolutionary or genetic bases for behavior. One
of the most well researched areas in the science of psychology (real
psychology, not pop or politically correct agendas) is the identification
and measurement of cognitive abilities. Intelligence or problem solving
ability can be measured reliably within an acceptable error tolerance. There
are individual differences and group differences. There are strong
correlates with biological structures. And there is ample evidence that
supports the heritability of this dimension. This research that supports the
genetic substrate of intelligence is best seen in the studies that examine
the amount of variance that is statistically accounted for in subjects with
a given degree of kinship, especially monozygotic twins. If one compares MZ
twins to dizygotic twins and finds a significantly greater correlation
between the measurements of MZ twins over DZ twins, the hypothesis is
supported that the identical genetic makeup of the MZ pairs accounts for the
difference over the DZ pairs.  The DZ twins have no more genetic commonality
than ordinary siblings, i.e. 25%. The rest of the variance is environmental
or error.

One can also compare other relatives with a known degree of kinship like
parent and child which share 50% commonality. One method that is notably
creative is to examine those individuals who have a parent with an identical
twin. The child, of course, shares 50% genetic commonality with his/her
parent. But he shares the same degree of commonality with the aunt or uncle
that shares 100% genetic commonality to the parent.

Examining all these types of studies, the research hovers near a value of
77% as the degree to which intelligence is genetically based. This leaves
23% for environment which would include nutrition, both in utero and post
partum, traumas of various kinds, as well as educational and other life
experiences. If one wishes to read up on this kind of work, my best
suggestion is Arthur R. Jenson, Bias in Mental Tests and The g Factor.

The most politically volatile findings are those that reveal the cognitive
differences among groups. One cannot even discuss these findings openly in
an academic setting any more without serious repercussions. The biggest
gorilla in the living room is the finding that the Negroid race scores about
two standard deviations below the mean of the Caucasoid race. East Asians
score about one half SD above the white mean and Ashkenazi Jews score about
one SD above the white mean. Those who have boldly delved into the
literature are familiar with these data. What is not as widely known are the
differences among groups with respect to cerebral hemispheric functioning.
Some test instruments like the Wechsler scales give two intelligence scores
as well as an overall score. The two component scores appear to reflect the
functioning of the left and right hemispheres of the brain. I used to do
neuropsychological tests and when one found a marked decrement in one of the
Wechsler scales (Verbal or Performance), there was almost always an
underlying brain impairment, like a cerebral vascular accident or assault
from a head injury. If it was a Verbal IQ decrement the injury would be
located in the left hemisphere; if it was a Performance IQ decrement the
lesion would be right hemispheric.

For those unfamiliar with the standard deviation reference points, two SD
below the mean is the cutoff point below which is considered retarded. One
SD above the mean is the approximately the mean of graduates of a four year
college. Two SD above the mean is the average score of people with
doctorates and it is the cutoff for membership into Mensa.

These tests were invented by the Caucasoid group so the reference points are
from that group. The relative differences would be the same if one chose any
other reference. The East Asians show markedly higher right hemispheric
function over the left while the Ashkenazi Jews score extremely high on
verbal or left hemispheric tasts and relatively lower on right hemisphere
tasks. Men score higher on the right hemispheric tests while women score
higher on the left hemispheric tests. Anatomically, men have a thicker right
cerebral cortex while women have a thicker left cortex. This parallels the
observation that practically all grease monkey mechanics are men and nearly
all secretaries are women. Yeah, I know there are one or two exceptions, but
that doesn't alter the overall pattern. Women also have a thicker corpus
collosum which I believe supports various other behavioral differences
relating to expression of emotion.

Given these differences and the mountain of data that supports them, we may
ponder the consequences during the die off phase. First, will intelligence
be an asset or a liability? Number of offspring seems to be inversely
related to intelligence. But this may change given the die off environment.
Second, what will be the advantage or disadvantage of a strong right
hemispheric Chinese person with commensurate visual spatial abilities versus
the verbally facile Jewish person with the strong left hemisphere? Let's
consider both have the same overall IQ measurement.

I submit this information for your consideration.

With kind regards,

William F. Whisenant

William F. Whisenant, Ph.D.
Psychological Kinesiology
Austin, Texas
Kailua, Hawaii

--------------------------------

Moderator: I would like to see more discussion of this subject!  (Also more brain physiology, evolutionary psychology, and microbiology.)


------------------------ Yahoo! Groups Sponsor ---------------------~-->
FREE COLLEGE MONEY
CLICK HERE to search
600,000 scholarships!
http://us.click.yahoo.com/iZp8OC/4m7CAA/ySSFAA/7CYolB/TM
---------------------------------------------------------------------~->

To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
selfish_genes-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com

 

Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/ 


