From predator@cat.org.au Mon Jul 22 21:57:44 2002
Date: Tue, 11 Jun 2002 12:40:53 +1000 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: matthew arnison <maffew@cat.org.au>
Subject: reboots and power cuts

> hi pred

Ay Maff. Thanks for your suggestions on this script tweaking. I think
we're getting closer to something approaching reliability and the most
recent failures clustered together on the power supply chain:

0) flaky building supply (turn-offs - dont know yet)
1) not understanding ATX power supply behaviour (fixed)
2) not understanding GX50 motherboard BIOS-level power-on behaviour (fixed)
3) inadequately tested/understood UPS before putting it in a critical role
   (sleep modes? a requirement for manual-ON? Currently removed, not fixed)
4) post crash fsck reboot non-start script config (fixed)
 
> another thing with the boot time fsck -- i seem to remember some
> discussion of rebooting after doing a fsck. there's no need i think. e.g.
> if you are sitting in front of a linux box and the fsck fails and it dumps
> you into a root prompt, then you do a manual fsck and hold down Y, and it
> works, then you can simply "exit" that shell and the system will come up
> normally. the only real problem you'll have is if for some reason the -y
> option doesn't work, in which case auto rebooting won't help anyway. you
> need soemeone in front of the computer at that point.

Yeah, I've ping-ponged that one around a bit too, and the critical failure
point was the unavailable human, who will remain so due to key access
issues. I'm *scared* to ponder what would stop fsck -blah -blah -y
working. 

> basically what i'm saying is i recommend leaving the init.d script intact,
> and just changing the variable FSCKAUTO (or whatever it's called) so that
> it uses the -y option for the automated fsck run.
> 
> see the last option in /etc/default/rcS

That's what's changed on conway, pink and treehug, as you prudently
suggested. Perhaps we were destined to meet at the Dendy 8-)

> anyway, the other thing iwas thinking is about these mysterious power
> outages. i remember thinking it was very odd that we had a power outage
> within weeks of moving the cat server into TWS. this after no such
> problems in two years of the server sitting on the floor of EMU - as you
> point out, you'd think the EMU site would be less reliable power-wise.

We did have juice problems at EMU, but not many in the entire time, and
generally not clustered closely. They were:
 
-Rachel Delaney's first application of the vacuum cleaner via
 the power socket which fed black.cat. Splat.

- J.Random Customer walked up the the black.cat terminal and, assuming it
  was a comatose surfing box, ctrl-alt-deleted it. Splat. 

-I moved it from time to time to check modems, etc, unplugged wrong thing,
 splat.

- towards the end of the EMU period, things got more flakey, it was
thought because of a new coffee machine or some such tripping out the
circuit breaker which fed the cat power point, or drawing enough load to
drop the voltage of the feed to black.cat for long enough to drop
black.cat, etc etc. Hence we put the first UPS in.

> so i just wondered if you've considered all the options?

 > * the building power is dodgy

This is always a possibility. Two modes: spikes, or absence. Consequences
of the first: we have: early March, killed our old UPS (surge cooked
diodes which fed charge to batteries; diag and fix by John August), killed
TWS's Ungermann-Bass 16port hub (10 MOhm resistor failure in power supply,
damage to drive circuitry for front panel blinkenlights, diag, fix by me),
brain damaged pink's power supply (ignores its on-off switch, diag and fix
by giffo), blown the MOVs in the surge suppressor on the cord which feeds
the UPS (diag by me yesterday, yet to be replaced). Chef (TWS's server)
has not experienced any cooking but has gone down whenever mains went off,
and ceased to tx/rx data when treehugger (firewall/gateway) was scuppered.
Maybe it's got better surge suppression in the front end of its power
supply than the rest? Nice thing about these things is we can make our own
surge suppressors from commodity parts, then *stack* them serially. So
yeah, we get spikes but we can add things to the supply chain to deal
with them.

Consequences of the second: boxes crash when the UPSs run out. No damage,
but downtime sucks, tho all boxes are now known (tested too) to come back
up when energised (current setup excludes new UPS which sometimes does not
do this) Also, someone has to go to the circuit breaker panel and flick it
on, if it was switched off, or tripped out. Who does this? 

Why would it trip out? Huge other loads on the same circuit. Plenty of
potential ones exist: airconditioners, photocopiers (auto-sleep and wake
up behaviour?), blower-type space heaters... bt not investigated yet. The
4 computers, headless, plus UPS and hub, are pulling under 2 amps AC,
total (about 0.5kW), from a power point rated to ten amperes (2.5kW). I
wonder who has access to that circuit breaker cupboard, or even knows
where it is?

> * there is a cleaner who likes to use the cat power point for the vacuum
> (this has happened to me before)

I remember it well... (above). Stories of this kind are legion in
hospitals with people on life support ... the staff notice frequently that
death in their ward coincides with the wednesday the cleaner comes around
and polishes the floor, etc.

> * they have meetings and training in there next to where the cat server
> desk is (or was when i was involved) - and someone is unplugging the cat
> server so they can plug in their laptop or mobile phone charger or a
> projector or something

Yeah, though i think this is unlikely.  Even if they are, There's a lot of
power boards with tempting, empty sockets available which people would
presumably just plug straight into rather than fossick for something
amidst our cable jungle. I can put fluoro stickers on the point/cable path
suggesting non removal, etc, but if the option you mention immediately
below is a possibility maybe I shouldn't.

> (i think there was a meeting on in that space the
> first time cat's power went out)

Check comment later re old UPS proximity to foot traffic. My bad, I think.
 
> * there is someone in the TWS office who doesn't like cat for some reason,
> and deliberately unplugs it

Hmmm... an unpleasant thought. Then again, a lot of what cat does is
probably pissing off a lot of heavy corporate interests in the
sandmining/woodchipping/etc etc industries, so it would make sense for
them to infiltrate TWS, "lose" a key to the tws office (keep it) then show
up just when a cat-hosted TWS site, or whatever, is ready for launch, and
yank the cables. Keys have historically been lost for the TWS office. I
dont know if the building management have changed the locks or
reprogrammed the swipe card reader or what, but the possibility exists
that a hostile someone out there has a key to the TWS office.

Or, if we dont pay our bills the accountant at TWS gets mad and yanks our
cables then plugs'em back in? Or simply turns the point off?

Of course I can still machine up metal brackets which will require that to
remove the kettle cord, one needs to unscrew the thing; tamper-resistant
(whacko nonstandard security-headed) screws are commercially available for
that too.

> i agree it makes sense to try and build the cat cluster of boxes to be
> resistant to power outages, but some of these problems, especially the
> last one, won't be solved that way.

Yep.
 
> there might be various discrete things you can do to test the above
> options.
> 
> - take notes on each outage. (useful in general anyway.) what time did the
> system stop responding? what were the symptoms? were all the plugs in
> normally when the first person looked at it? was the problem a system
> software thing (disk full) or hardware related? see if you can isolate
> trends.

Sure. I think to some extent this happens anyway... person walks in and
finds, UPS dead, or conway off, or conway on but stuck waiting for ctrl-D,
magic smoke escaping from surge suppressor, etc etc, mentions it to other
people. Hence my scheduling a day to go in and stomp 'em.

 > - find out when the place is cleaned, if it's at a regular
> time or not. (i've noticed the outages often seem to happen over the
> weekend: could be a Friday night cleaner?)

Given the multi-week latency of confetti on the floor of that office I
suspect the cleaner is not very good at their job. So either they're not a
cleaner or they have no cleaner. 

> - you could tape down the various plugs and whatever in such a way that it
> would be obvious if someone is unplugging them, even if they plug them
> back in afterwards.

Yep. Or affix them. Should we consider a key-off key-on system?

> - you could plug in an old clock radio into some other point and see if it
> gets its time reset (due to a power outage).

Cool!
 
> - move the cat cluster to a different spot within TWS and see if it's more
> reliable

It's currently in the corner near the big, heavy, solid safe. I guess if
whoever uses the safe (and I dont think anyone does) messed with the
cables that'd do it.
 
> - ask Liam if alpha has to do anything special to keep their server room
> powered up. find out which building power circuit they are on - maybe only
> some circuits have trouble.

Yes. I'll be able to determine our feed circuit ID from the point ID
itself, but I dont know what the story is with the circuit breaker
cupboard, access to it, etc etc. I have met CBs which fail in
sometimes-on, sometimes-off mode. Can replace by myself if needs be.

> this sort of research is slow, but it might start to help you eliminate
> possibilities. i'm sure you've tried atleast some of these things already.


8-) 

> for what it's worth, i think the sabotage option is extremely unlikely,
> but oddly enough it was also my gut feeling for the first power cut we had
> at TWS. it was just too unlucky.


When a system does a lot of time/date critical things, and has a lot of
failures, these will tend to coincide occasionally for no actual causally 
related reason.

The failure in that case was because the power cord feeding the UPS was in
a position where it could be easily kicked, IIRC. My bad.
 
> however, of course all the other options would need to be thoroughly
> eliminated first. dealing with such a situation would be nasty and you'd
> want to be extremely sure of your facts before raising it at all with any
> TWS people. gut feelings can be very wrong, in which case they are
> paranoia, and that can be highly destructive.

At this stage, I'm pretty sure it's not sabotage. Unless ineptitude counts
8-) Heh... maybe <security organisation> lets me stay in cat because they
consider me more harm than good for cat.
 
> it's much more likely that cat is just having a run of bad luck at the
> moment. e.g. the 3 gig emails that andy was telling me about. :)

Yeah, there's a clue-free-pred-puke on catgeek about it somewhere. Klez;
Berndt's bugfile-3Gb mailout; the look-ma-no-disk-space/postgres
explosion/oops I just clobbered active brisbane (etc) episode, the
reaching of our 2Gb tarfile backup limit, plus this critical machine I
built and tested not doing what I wanted it to do in a known way... the
only rays of light in this sitch were that finally, we have a very good
change of an ADSL link at Turella so we can piss off one phone line in
total and also get IMCsydney on a link which isn't agonisingly slow.

(pred thinks: perhaps, in the reverse of the way in which we were all
trained by TV to get images instantly,  the slow net link encourages
peoples' attention spans to lengthen. Optimist!)

> anyway, please don't forward this message on. i don't want my technical
> advice to be seen on cat, it only encourages more questions which i'm
> sorry i can't deal with. and some of the power outage stuff is probably
> best discussed off list, e.g. face to face at a cat meeting.

Yeah. 

> i hope some of this blathering might be useful to you.

'Tis, tah. 
 
> thanks for all your tireless work keeping cat going.

Thank you for starting the project 8-)

> cheers,
> m.


<predator>

