From guyd@zip.com.au Mon Jan 14 14:15:53 2002
Date: Sun, 13 Jan 2002 22:39:54 +1100
From: Guy Dunphy <guyd@zip.com.au>
To: predator@cat.org.au
Subject: Something surprising

Hi Mike,

A few years ago, you did me an immense favour by informing me
of the work of Philo Farnsworth. This reoriented my entire
life's ambition, by demonstrating that the 'crazy idea' I'd
had long ago, wasn't crazy at all.

I hope, perhaps, you may find the information that follows of
similar significance.

You've had a lot of grief in your life with and due to religion.
We both hate it. We both think its all entirely mad. We both find
it nearly infinately depressing that mankind is prone to such
stupitity.

Well, guess what? I've just discovered that there seems to have
been, originally, a perfectly sensible and physical basis for
what has evolved into our present (ie last 2000 years) looney
tunes pantheon.

Again, it was a confluence of two, independent sources of information,
which each alone would not have seemed very significant.
One, is a book I found in Goulds, called 'The Cosmic Winter' by
Victor Clube & Bill Napier. The other is a short column article
in the current (Jan-Feb 2002) issue of New Dawn.
Here is the text of that article. I continue below it.
----------------------------------------------------------------
Meteor clue to end of ancient civilisations

Scientists have found the first evidence that a devastating meteor
impact in the Middle East might have triggered the mysterious collapse
of civilisations more than 4,000 years ago.

Studies of satellite images of southern Iraq have revealed a two-mile-
wide circular depression which scientists say bears all the hallmarks
of an impact crater. If confirmed, it would point to the Middle East
being struck by a meteor with the violence equivalent to hundreds of
nuclear bombs.

Today's crater lies on what would have been shallow sea 4,000 years ago,
and any impact would have caused devastating fires and flooding.

The catastrophic effect of these could explain the mystery of why so
many early cultures went into sudden decline around 2,300 BC.

They include the demise of the Akkad culture of central Iraq, with its
mysterious semi-mythological emperor Sargon; the end of the fifth
dynasty of Egypt's Old Kingdom, following the building of the Great
Pyramids and the sudden disappearance of hundreds of early settlements
in the Holy Land.

Until now, archaeologists have put forward a host of separate explanations
for these events, from local wars to environmental changes. Recently,
some astronomers have suggested that meteor impacts could explain such
historical mysteries.

The crater's faint outline was found by Dr. Sharad Master, a geologist
at the University of Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, on satellite images
of the Al 'Amarah region, about 10 miles northwest of the confluence of
the Tigris and Euphrates and home of the Marsh Arabs.

"It was a purely accidental discovery," said Dr Master. "I was reading
a magazine article about the canal-building projects of Saddam Hussein,
and there was a photograph showing lots of formations - one of which was
very, very circular."

The crater also appears to be, in geological terms, very recent. Dr Master
said: "The sediments in this region are very young, so whatever caused
the crater-like structure, it must have happened in the past 6,000 years.

Reporting his finding in the latest issue of the journal 'Meteorites &
Planetary Science', Dr Master suggests that a recent meteor impact is
the most plausible explanation for the structure.

A date of around 2300BC for the impact may also cast new light on the
legend of Gilgamesh, dating from the same period. The legend talks of
"the Seven Judges of Hell", who raised their torches, lighting the land
with flame, and a storm that turned day into night, "smashed the land
like a cup", and flooded the area.

Dr Benny Peiser, who lectures on the effects of meteor impacts at John
Moores University, Liverpool, said that craters recently found in
Argentina date from around the same period - sugesting that Earth may
have been hit by a shower of large meteors at about the same time.

(Source: The London Telegraph, 4 November 2001)
---------------------------------------------------------------------

OK, interesting. But I read that while some way into the book I mentioned.
Electric!
The book's basic thesis is that around 5 to 10 K years ago, one or two
very large comets appeared, on Earth intersecting orbits. And that early
civilisation was smashed _several_times_, with typical cometary period
intervals of safety between each wave of impacts. And most importanly
(for us religion haters) the early myths were actually records of the
cyclic occurence of the comet(s). The amount of research the authors have
done into old mythology, and the usual linguistic fuck-ups that occur
when people try to translate the 'sense' (as they see it) of a script,
rather than just transcribe the bloody words, is amazing!
You have to read this book!

I'm still only part way through. There may be more copies in Goulds-
it was in the 'science' section upstairs. Has a green spine, white
title. Cover has pic of Manhattan, with standing WTC towers (ironic)
and iced-up water in foreground.
If you can't find one, you'll have to wait till I'm finished reading
my copy. And I do want it back eventually.

The way he traces the gradual decay of a realistic attempt to describe
real objects in the heavens, as a record and forecast of when the
world had been (and would be again) clobbered rather severely, into a
slew of sensless religions once the comet debree trail had become
harmless, and the comets themselves had long faded....   a joy.

Its still kind of depressing, but not so bad as if we humans just
made up all that nuttiness out of thin air, with no excuse for
getting so deadly serious about it all.

I was reading the book with a kind of academic detachment (yeah, nice
theory), when I read the other article above. Effective proof, and
one of those amazing coincidences of timing.

Wonder when the next one is due in? The thought occurs that if humans
have been around for 100K years, and we just had about 3K years of
quiet, after another few K-years of regular trashings, what about
the previous 90K or so years? All quiet? Or regularly thrashed?
Might explain why it took us so dammed long to get it together.
Or maybe there really _were_ long lost high civilisations, just
not extensive enough to show up in the records.



Changing the topic.
Rense.com posted an article of mine. See http://rense.com/general18/autoo.htm
But they didn't post this one of mine (long):
--------------------------------------------------------------------------


                 Squaring the 9-11 Jigsaw Puzzle
                 -------------------------------
                   Guy Dunphy  guyd@zip.com.au
                           Jan 10th 2002


So many shards, fragments of images, facts and suspicions. Thousands
of pieces, and thousands of dead. In this puzzle, so many facets show
grey; the grey of concrete dust, the grey of halftruths, the grey of
failing hope and freedoms, the grey of all ruin, in any land.

With jigsaw puzzles, you have to start somewhere, and it may as well
be some part that seems to make sense, even if the rest of the picture
is still obscure. Lets start with this grouping that looks like a class
portrait, plus a set of pieces that clip right in around those faces.

Cast of Characters
------------------

Here is the seed, the parts that fell out of the box still joined-

Bush, Cheney, Ashcroft, Rice, Rumsfeld, Mueller, White, and their old
oil/drug/Enron associates are clearly involved, with prior knowledge,
and at least some planning role. They act now in coordination, not
in support of the USA, but in pursuit of an agenda that can only bring
suffering and darkness to all the world. The end of democracy, and
free nations.

Supporting evidence
-------------------

These are the links that have spoilt the illusion; the small but spikey
details that have held enough of a picture together, to give us a glimpse
of something that was meant to be hidden. To start us on the search for
more fits and connections-

The extraordinary failure of the Air Force to follow standard
proceedures, and get up interceptors within minutes of the initial
notification from the FAA that the planes were off course and out
of communication. Unlike all other instances on record, where even
deviating light planes were promptly intercepted.
This failure being apparently due to a direct order to 'stand down'.

The USAF 'stand down' order came from 'top executive' levels. That
means Pres, Vice Pres, Sec of Defence, etc. This order issued before
the end play (impacts) occured. Indeed it seems as if it was issued
almost simultaneously with the initial stages of the hijackings, when
there was no indication this was anything other than a standard (albeit
times four) hijacking. So why was it issued?

Cheney: his lies re orders to USAF re intercept of planes, and distortions
re how the FAA -> USAF 'scamble' system works. Clear attempt to mislead
public perceptions, to obscure the fact that someone in admin deliberately
froze the normal intercept proceedures. From the viewpoint of the
guilty, it would be vital to prevent people asking _why_ this was done,
and noting the damming evidence of the timing.
Who would he be covering for, if not himself, Bush, etc?

Subsequent obfuscation of the role Andrews Air Force Base normally
plays in such (regular) intercepts of deviating commercial flights.
Air force websites altered, etc.

Bush: verbal slip re his watching the _first_ impact live on 'TV'.
Implication: He was observing the success of an operation in which
he was closely involved before the event.

Frantic efforts of media to remove all refs to that slip. Which were
too late, thanks to the net. So later, Bush says it _again_; this time
apparently going for the audience's 'I'm confused' sympathy.

Subsequent to S-11, all the 'evidence' manufacturing, and the unified
media misdirection, indicates that the spin is being managed from very
high up.

Indications of prepared 'evidence', and scripted story, all ready to
roll immediately after the event:
* Speed with which the 'Osama did it' story surfaced (when they could
not yet possibly have known.)
* The list of hijackers, names and photos. So very soon after.
* The hijacker's passport, that was supposedly found in a street
near the WTC afterwards, but entirely undamaged. Not even singed.
* The car found in the airport parking lot, with flight manuals in
arabic, etc. Still no explanation of where this tip off came from.
* The NS article, the very next day, so artfully and deliberately
obscuring the issue of how autopilot capabilities do admit the
possibility that there were no hijackers.

Indications that the FBI had been 'inhibited' in its investigations
of any leads related to the hijackers, long before Sept 11. That
they had been given such leads is very clear. Why they didn't follow
up is not at all clear, but does seem to be beyond the normal bounds
explainable by incompetence.



Motives
-------

At the center of the puzzle, some faces. Around them, arrows of guilt,
and lines of command. But what is below, where they stand? On what aims
might these people be acting, what possible shoals could cause such wreck?

---Power---
Advancing the New World Order cause: manufacturing 'the right crisis'
to shift public support behind legislative destruction of US constitutional
freedoms, and imposition of a totalitarian world state.
David Rockefeller: "We are on the verge of a global transformation.
All we need is the right major crisis and the nations will accept the
New World Order."
Many other quotes re NWO at WhatReallyHappened.com/quotes.html
NWO information, from many net sites, including www.globalism.com.au
Yale's Skull & Bones society. (Members include Bush, Clinton, etc.)

---Oil---
Long planned military action in Afghanistan, in pursuit of Caspian basin oil,
accessible to the USA only via pipelines through Afghanistan. Estimated to
hold two decades worth of US oil consumption.
Quotes from Cheney re great significance of that area. (Given his connections
with US oil interests.)
Negotiations with Taliban re pipeline, threats to them of invasion/bombing
if they didn't agree to US terms, collapse of talks, etc.
US was mobilising for military action in that area well _before_ S-11.

---Public distraction---
The US has begun to suffer an economic implosion, according to several
knowledgable analysts (see for eg www.agora-inc.com)
One element of this process is the collapse of the giant US company Enron,
whose directors include several close Bush & Cheney associates. Who also
happen to have played roles in the the collapse that are drawing close
attention from fraud investigators.
War can always be counted on to make the public 'follow the leader'.
Also, since the WTC housed the elite of the US banking system, the
administration can now point to that loss as a cause of subsequent
economic woes. 'Not our fault!'  Note though, that most of those
people would not have arrived at work till much later than the time
the towers fell. Only the lower classes have to work before 9.30am

---Military distraction---
Or rather, keeping the military's attention focussed elsewhere.
Speaking of 'follow the leader', if the US executive government was
caught red-handed, attempting to subvert the US constitution, and
commit mass murder of US citizens, and appeared to be nonetheless
still getting away with it due to their absolute grip on the US
news media, police, investigation and justice systems, you'd expect
that that the US armed forces might have something to say about it.
But not if those same armed forces had suffered their own painful
'terrorist' blow, and were thus wholly focussed on conducting some
large scale live fire retribution exercises on the other side of
the world.

Convenient too, if large portions of the US mobile forces can be
kept busy, safely out of the country, during the critical 'will the
people wise up or won't they?' few months after your dirty acts.
'Finished in Afghanistan already? Well then, have Iraq for desert!'
But what about the remaining armed forces, the ones still at home?
How would the conspirators expect to forstall them, if the cover
story begins to seriously unravell?

---Escalation potential----
Distant disasters of last resort. The US expeditionary forces now
happen to be within missile range of an unrelated (?) trigger happy,
nuclear armed war zone (India/Pakistan.) Just supposing the US armed
forces took it into their heads to overthrow the fascist traitors back
at home, a little bit of covert provocation in the right spot along
the India/Pakistan border would promptly and totally refocus the US
military's attention. On extracting the remnants of their men from a
radioactive mess.

As has been noted, India and Pakistan, being directly adjacent, will
inevitably be prone to fast, ill-considered nuclear response to any
perceived major attack. One small portable nuke explosion anywhere
in either country could start it. Easy to arrange, in the current
climate. Especially given an Al Quaeda (pronounced CIA) fighter having
been found carrying a Russian-made backpack nuke across the border
into Pakistan. Given that there are known to be more than one such
loose.

Who were those guys that tried to shoot up the Indian Parliament, 
anyway?   Not _more_ CIA trained terrorists? Their timing was rather
good, from Bush & Co's viewpoint. Just about right to have that area
simmering nicely, in case the big one is needed to put down all this
unAmerican talk of conspiracies at home. Think you've seen extreme
civil rights abuses due to the WTC/Pentagon crashes? Wait till there's
a nuclear war under way.
From the NWO viewpoint (which we can safely assume cares nothing for
human life or cultural diversity), maybe a nuclear war on the Indian
subcontinent might be considered a Good Thing. Cuts that old global
population problem back a bit, if the second and sixth most populous
nations are glowing in the dark. More room for the super rich later.

If I can possibly send a plea to the leaders of India and Pakistan:
Please, you are not fighting who you think, for the reasons you think.
Take a break, and consider who will really gain from this conflict.
Maybe accepting an invitation to visit with Ashcroft, Bush, Cheney,
Rice and Powell might not be such a good idea either, Mr Advani.
(rense.com/general18/en.htm)
Much the same advice could be extended to the officers and soldiers
of the United States Military. Who and what are you fighting for?



Methods
-------

Would members of the US administration & military instigate such
mayhem and havock to achieve their own strategic goals?
Answer: Yes. They have planned such before.

As shown by the 'Operation Northwoods' official US govt documents
from the Kennedy vs Cuba era. Details of serious government plan
to commit acts of domestic terror, and lay the blame on Cuba in order
to justify military invasion of that nation.

This time there had to be _actual_ terror acts, since a repeat of
'alledged' acts (in the vein of the 'Gulf of Tonkin' incident,
fabricated by the US admin as pretext for Vietnam war) might not
be enough to swing public opinion.

Its worth pointing out that the Northwoods documents came to light
accidentally as a result of a freedom of information request.
No coincidence that Ashcroft, soon after S-11, in his capacity as
director of the Dept of Justice, directed all US government departments
to do their very best to deny future freedom of information requests.
Ref: Mail list: politechbot.com 18 Oct 2001 Ashcroft instructs federal
agencies to resist FOIA requests.
Maybe there are some documents relating to planning for the S-11 action,
that might be accessible to FOI requests? But now you can't have them!



The Fall Guy
------------

Every villainous act must have its public villain. Otherwise,
people might become inquisitive, and uncover the real villain(s).
In this case, the public enemy was announced to be Osama Bin Laden.
(Never mind how we know, we can't let you see the evidence, because
its *secret*. But Mr Blair says it convinced him, all right?)

If one of the prime objectives of the action is to justify invading
Afghanistan, then clearly Osama has to be in Afghanistan. And he has
to stay there long enough to justify comprehensively pulverising the
place, to impress on the locals that they'd better go along with the
pipeline deal. That part went more or less to plan.
Less obviously, he also has to avoid proving that he didn't do it.
Ideally, he acts to leave the US government maximum flexibility of
action, by neither confirming nor believably denying his involvement,
and never revealing his true location. Because if he did, the US
would have little excuse to continue attacking _other_ places, and
they might be cornered into a position of having to either capture
their 'target', or look totally incompetent.

All this is much easier to ensure if your 'fall guy' is actually working
for you (more or less.)
Now, Osama clearly has worked for the US govt in the past. Is he still?
Some pointers:
Laden family business connections to Bush family.

Same bankers used by both.

Osama and Al Quaeda acted as US trained & armed anti-Russian resistance
fighters in Afghanistan.

Laden family given reconstruction contract, for US embassy Bin Laden
is supposed to have blown up!

While a supposed 'fugitive from the US govt' Bin Laden spends time
in an American hospital in Dubai, from the 4th to 14th of July 2001,
for kidney treatment. While there is visited by a CIA operative.
Later he leaves hospital & catches flight out without problems.
(http://www.globalresearch.ca/articles/RIC111B.html)

The computer found in Kabul, that previously belonged to Al Quaeda
planners, contains details of many Al Quaeda operations, including
the letter to Northern Alliance leader Massoud, requesting he grant
an interview to the reporter who killed Massoud with a suicide bomb.
Now, Massoud is said to have had the clout to have negotiated the
capture and deportation of Bin Ladin to the USA. Which would have
stymied US plans to invade Afghanistan. So Massoud dies, just prior
to S-11, by Al Quaeda action.
Perfect for Osama, Al Quaeda, and the US plotters.

The computer files also refer to Al Quaeda as 'the company', and its
leaders as 'the executive', which seems odd for a supposedly Islamic
revolutionary terrorist organisation. Unless... they are actually a
front organisation for another group which also calls itself 'the
company' - the CIA. Who, we must recall, initially funded the creation
of Al Quaeda.

Despite all the other minute details of Al Quaeda operations on the
computer, there is no mention of an attack using airliners, or S-11.
(Naturally, since the Bush/CIA gang would hardly trust a bunch of
terrorists with managing the very delicate matter of laying the clue
trail intended as cover for their betrayal of their own country.)

The 1000 or so armed Al Quaeda fighters, allowed to leave Kandahar
airport on Russian made transports, as large numbers of Pakistani
Taliban fighters were let go (unarmed) back to Pakistan, under US
troop control.

The Al Quaeda training camp, _still_ being run within a US-controlled
zone in the Balkans, apparently with US knowledge. Fighters trained
here used to pursure US interests in the area.


An Unknowing Mastermind
There are many little details suggesting Osama wasn't privy to the precise
nature and timing of the attacks. The story that he was in Kabul when it
happened, and he heard the news via the media coverage. That he packed up
a convoy and left that city within hours. I can imagine his surprise, if
he'd been led to believe something much smaller was scheduled. Seeing the
towers fall, he'd know the thing had gone beyone diplomatic complaints,
that he was looking at a pretext for a major war. With him being named as
the target.

By all indications, his relationship with the US/CIA/plotters seems to
have been a very loose arrangement, probably with little or no trust,
and minimal coordination involved.
But what was he getting out of all this? (Apart from all the millions
the US had spent setting up and arming Al Quaeda, and was probably still
shovelling his way.)

Consider: given Osama's current renal problems, is it safe to bet he was
hospitalised, back then in Israel, for treatment of kidney failure?
What did he and his CIA visitor discuss?

My guess: CIA makes offer: "Mr Laden, we offer a kidney transplant
in return for your cooperation in a little matter. We want you to be
a 'bad guy' for us. We are going to have a some 'terrorist attacks'
and we want you to go along with being called the mastermind. You get
the transplant later, if you play your part. We have some excellent
hospitals.

More tenuous guess: Bin Laden had planned to have a transplant while
at that hospital. His location was discovered by CIA. They inform him
the transplant is off just now, very sorry, but maybe could be arranged
in future, depending on his cooperation in the meantime.

From Osama's viewpoint (more guesswork):
If he takes the offer, he gets to live now, and hopefully recover
his health in the future. (This alone might be enough.)

He doesn't like the US at all, the US government even less, and
least of all what the US is doing to poor people and islamics
worldwide. As its explained to him, this proposal involves the US
govt actually performing some kind of attacks on their own citizens,
for reasons he naturally thinks are insane. But from his viewpoint,
any attack on the US is an attack on the US, and he's all for it.
Regardless of who commits it. I suspect he'd agree to the plan, for
this factor alone.

What the CIA wants him to do is not so hard, and may even achieve what
he would like to see: an uprising of Islam against the West.

Maybe he hopes the plan comes unstuck (after his kidney transplant)
and the warmongering US administration falls on its face. Or maybe,
as the leader of an intrinsicly contradictory CIA created islamic
guerilla organisation, he doesn't really care at all about anything.

Maybe, maybe not, the matter of a full scale US invasion of Afghanistan
is mentioned. I think he'd be likely to work this out for himself,
if he was told of the planned scale of the attacks. Then the CIA would
know it, and so discuss the matter. But maybe he is only told there
will be some smaller attacks, and the day, and city, but not the
exact details. (This fits with the story of what the Al Quaeda
prisoners in the British gaol knew. Nor would the plotters likely
risk telling him the details. Too open to double cross.)
Anyway, he agrees. And flies off to learn his lines, complete with
dialysis machine. Can't have the star player looking too sick.


Since the latest Osama video, in which he does actually appear very ill,
I'm betting that the original plan has fallen apart to some extent.
Perhaps Osama has twigged that his US Government partners are a pack
of lying cheats, there is little chance of them coming through with
their part of the deal, and he has decided to go and die on them.
Or maybe things are unravelling back in the US a bit more than the
plotters anticipated, and the deal with Osama is off due to unforseen
difficulties.
Or maybe they never intended to let him see the inside of a western
hospital anyway, and what Osama concludes about that is of no concern.

In any case, he is unlikely to publicly admit to the deal. Though it
would be good if he did. That would certainly set the chickens loose,
and he'd gain some status for that act alone. Though he'd still be
to blame for the (second) destruction of Afghanistan, and definately
off the kidney queue.


The Hijackers
-------------

Overall, these guys seem to have been a bunch of bumbling incompetents,
who spent a whole lot of money, over nearly a year, on gaining a working
inability to fly even a light plane. They made quite sure their actions
looked suspicious, with all that insistence on being taught only how to
_fly_ airliners, not take off or land. They drank. They had good times
in bars. They lived with family. They left luggage and arabic flight
manuals in a car in an airport carpark. They mostly had known Al Quaeda
connections. If they'd worn name tags saying 'Terrorist' and phoned from
the planes, shouting "Victory for Osama and Al Quaeda, die Americans!"
they could hardly have left a more obvious clue trail.

But the FBI, despite numerous leads, including actually arresting one of
the would be 'hijackers', and having him in custody, and warnings from
at least two foreign governments of an impending attack, and attempts by
another prisoner in a US gaol to inform of the attack (he'd learned of
it from some arabic prisoners months ago while in a British gaol), did
exactly nothing. One agent, on hearing the prisoner's claims, exclaimed
that was 'old news'!

This is so 'X-Files' its spooky. Such inaction can surely only be seen
as a result of instructions to ignore this whole 'arabic pilot training
scheme' due to its being some domestic black operation. A CIA thing.
The air defenses were ordered to stand down on the day, no question. It
seems that the FBI was also ordered to stand down, long before the day.

So on September 11th the four planes, that these Al Quaeda student pilots
were so obviously training to fly on suicidal missions, all do just that.
Yep, no doubt about it, Osama strikes again.

Except for the Air Force stand down, and the airline published passenger
lists that contain _no_ hijackers, and the small matter of the Pentagon
plane performing a final manoevour that would stretch the precision
flying skills of a verteran fighter pilot (but would be no trouble for
the onboard flight computer), and a distinct odor of freshly minted
fairystory wafting from several critical bits of 'after the fact'
evidence supporting the 'hijackers were on the planes' story, and the
FBI effectively standing back and letting them get on with their job.
The fact that most of the hijackers didn't end up being able to even
fly a Cesna seems like a problem too.

Incidentally, don't you think its odd they didn't make any broadcasts
from the planes, not even in the last few moments? You'd think that
with four of them in each plane, someone would have a spare hand to
hold a microphone, and work the radio. Not even an 'In the name of Allah!'

Well, either they were on board, and the plot involves some duped
'cowards' giving their lives to provide two decades more oil for the
US, or they were not on board. This latter possibility seems to fit
quite cleanly with the overall theme emerging, except for the rather
awkward question of who then flew the planes into the buildings.

At this point, searching through the jigsaw pieces for some way to
close this difficult hole, we come across two curious items.
One, is an ex-aeronautical engineer claiming that most planes made
since the early nineties (including these particular models) have
incorporated a secret 'anti-hijack' system, which allows for the
autopilot to be remotely reprogrammed, and to take control of the
plane plus disconnect all cockpit controls. With the objective of
having the plane fly to an airport and land using the automatic
landing system. 
(ref Vialls' 'HomeRun' story, and my 'When is an Autopilot not an
Autopilot?' article.)

So, seems like we don't need hijackers, just someone on the ground
with the right codes and a radio transmitter to upload them into the
computers. Then the planes fly away, along a new series of navigation
waypoints, terminating in buildings. Ignoring all attempts by the crew
to regain control (they can't turn off the flight computers, or the
plane crashes.) This fits quite well, even the bit about skilled
flying from the Pentagon plane.
Incidentally, one further problem with the 'remote controlled flight
by radio' idea, is that by simply disabling the radio receivers on
the plane, the remote control would be broken. Unlike the 'autopilot-
waypoints' system, which can't be disabled without crashing the plane.

The _other_ significant puzzle piece, is a kind of confirmation via
a negative. It is an article published in New Scientist magazine, the
day after the events. It very deviously attempts to establish that
there could be no possibility of such a thing - that the autopilots
could never be used this way. The article manages to dance entirely
around the critical idea, without actually ever touching it. Reading
that perl of deliberate obfuscation convinces me that this piece does
actually fit here in the puzzle - because someone is trying hard to
pretend it doesn't. Much as Cheney tried hard to obscure the details
of the Air Force non-response. By observing where the most effort is
used to camoflage the facts, we uncover the facts themselves.


Not the picture on the box
--------------------------

Now we start to see a picture quite different from the one on the
jigsaw box, the one the media is feeding us. We have hijackers, who's
function was to play the part of hijackers beforehand, to lay a trail
of association, but who were not on the planes.
We have planes, that were programmed to behave like cruise missiles,
using codes only the US government is supposed to have.
We see an 'evil mastermind' who does not know the details of the plan,
yet is playing the part, acting as a pin in a map, to suit the agenda
of the US government and oil indistry. A man who may or may not still
receive a reward for his effort, but _is_ being let slip from the
clutches of 'justice' again and again.

Meanwhile, we have a US administration consisting almost entirely of
ex oil men and known NWO advocates, with members in every branch of
the state (executive, senate, law, investigation, military), using
'terrorism' as a catch-all justification to simultaneously drag the
nation into war for oil, while destroying the very constitutional
freedoms that were supposed to make the place worth fighting for.
And these men are most blatantly involved in covering up the few
awkward facts of the hijacking scenario that just don't fit. Plus
they were in a position to have given the crucial stand-down orders
that made the whole thing possible, hijackers or no hijackers.

There are still many pieces to go, however. Only a patchy outline
of the overall vision is showing, so far.
Hmmm now, what else can we find that fits......


The Undocumented Detainees
--------------------------

So the Justice Dept, under the Homeland Security act, is detaining hundreds,
maybe even thousands of 'suspects' all around the country. Without any right
to a laywer, or outside contact, or arrest warrants, or even any formal paper
records. Just slips of pink paper, sent out to local sherrif's offices, with
names: round up these people, lock them away, and keep quiet about it.

Now these arabic hijackers, who were conspicuously around before Sept 11,
and must definately _not_ turn up afterwards, yet were not on the planes;
where are they now? Why, under the care of the Justice Dept presumably.
And if you wanted to cover up that you have ten or so people who don't
exist under your care, then what better way than to hide them among ten
hundred, of similar appearance, who also don't exist in a quite similar
fashion.


Connections - Port Arthur
-------------------------

A psyop massacre in Australia's Port Arthur, on 28th April 1996 - was this
a test run for the controlled media management of major NWO disinformation
campaigns required around psyops such as S-11?

If you were a government, planning to pull a fast one on the most freedom
sensitive nation on earth, and this involved killing large numbers of your
fellow citizens, perhaps you might choose to try the idea out safely first.

Somewhere _else_, where it won't be _your_ fingers that get burned if
things go wrong. Yet somewhere very much like the US, with an equally
(if not more so) controlled media, and similar style of government and
national character.  
Which means either Australia, or less so, Britain or Canada.

For the sake of realism in the experiment, you would require that elements
of local government and security services be in on the act. Since after
all, the objective is to test whether total media control trumps any
small slipups and goofs by the organisers - which can be expected to
occur in any major exercise. Hence the chosen country must be one in
which the local government could be relied upon to play their role well,
standing in for the US administration in this dry run for an eventual
'live' rerun in the US.

This factor alone puts Australia at the head of the list.
The Australian political system consists of two predominant political
parties (same as the US), pretty much neck and neck in public popularity
(same as US), both equally corrupted and directed by international money
interests (same as US), and elected in a farcical sham of democratic
process that serves both to isolate the citizens from political power,
while preserving an illusion of participation (same as the US).
(Ref John Pilger: 'A Secret Country')

In addition, under the NWO itinery of elimination of capacity for civil
resistance to NWO developments, Australia was scheduled for a severe
restriction of civil rights of gun ownership. However, legislation to
achieve this was still being stalled on each attempted introduction,
due to an insufficiently convinced public and legislature.

The local political objective in this case, was to convince the public
that draconian gun control legislation was a great idea. One Australian
state (Tasmania, an island) had the most relaxed gun laws, so that was
chosen as the location for a managed massacre (35 killed) by a 'deranged
gunman' (one Martin Bryant.)

The parallels with the events of Sept. 11 are uncanny:

The alledged perpetrator clearly didn't do the actual deed (was in
fact totally incapable of the skill displayed by the shooter) but
was also clearly somehow 'acting a role' that strongly supported
his naming as the perpetrator.
This implies that Bryant's actions on the day were prearranged, as
part of the overall play. In Bryant's case, aspects of his prior
and subsequent behavior are suggestive of some kind of mind control,
regardless of that being hard to swallow.
In Osama's case, he is clearly playing some assigned role that aids
the continued use of himself, and Al Quaeda, as public villains by
the US administration.

Bryant was being named as the culprit by officialdom (the police)
well before there was any possibility that this fact could have been
deduced from the events. (Ref his mother being taken to police HQ,
and kept there incommunicado while the final siege was still in
progress, but the police on the scene had no idea who it was.)
Likewise, Bin Laden was being named as the culprit even as the dust
of the towers was still settling. How this was so certain so soon was
never explained, except with handwaving and 'it must have been him'.

After Port Arthur, the Australian government had their legislation
and supporting media campaign ready to roll virtually immediately,
strongly suggesting it was mostly in place beforehand.
After S-11, the US conveniently happened to have an ongoing military
buildup already underway in the area of interest, which needed very
little extra effort to begin operations.

Israeli involvement: In Port Arthur, evidence has recently come to
light suggesting that the actual perpetrator(s) were members of a
civilian Israeli Special Forces unit, the Mistaravim. (See Vialls)
With S-11, several Israeli links are surfacing.

Preparations: Quite a few prior events indicate that someone was
'building a case' for the guilt of Martin Bryant, even more than
a year beforehand. There were the anonymous tip-offs to Interpol,
that Bryant was 'acting suspiciously near a defence establishment
in England', and that he was smuggling drugs (in his world travels.)
None of the claims were substantiated, but this does build him a
profile in the police databases.
Then there was the 'person' who presented at Terry Hill's gun store,
with a loaded, unsafe, fully automatic military assault rifle - and
claimed to be Martin Bryant (but with the surname on his ID misspelt!)
Another example of 'profile building'.
In Bin Laden's case, he seems to have been working for, with, or
at least in the interests of the US for a long time.
And already in Afghanistan, how convenient!
Then there were the 'hijackers', and their far-from-secret pilot
training adventures. Al Quaeda, or people thinking they were doing
Al Quaeda business, or just some arabic looking CIA hires, who
knows? But they didn't act very much like devout muslims, with all
the drinking and womanising. That one of the flight training companies
(in Florida) is starting to look very like a CIA operation, just
adds to the doubt.


Connections - TWA 800
---------------------

Thinking along the same lines:
The S-11 events required that the FAA, NTSB, FBI, etc accident investigations
be quite leakproof. Things like the true content of the voice recorders
and black boxes must never be leaked to the public, lest some awkward
contradictions arise. Nor should any mention of the 'Homerun' system for
remotely reprogramming a commercial airliner's flight computer ever be
publicly mentioned. 
Consequently, a trial run in the US that 'tested the seals' on that whole
body of officialdom would seem like a good idea. Was this the purpose
of the TWA 800 'accident' and subsequent coverup? Shoot down a plane
with a missile from a US warship, then see if the cover story holds?
See if all those involved in hiding evidence of missile penetration
damage and explosives residue on the plane, confiscating radar tapes,
intimidation of military pilot witnessess, the destruction in secret
of the reassembled airframe, etc, could all be 'relied upon' to keep
silence.


Non-connections : The Kursk
---------------------------

Back in the early days after Sept 11, it was clear to me that the
perpetrators had to have considerable resources, not to mention a
distinct flair for the public psychology of psyops. The targets
chosen, and the timing of the two planes into the twin towers. Just
the right interval, to ensure multiple video cameras caught the second
plane's impact, thus ensuring maximum public emotional trauma.
Little details, like the second pilot going unwaveringly for the second
tower, despite the first tower seeming to have survived. What would
you have done (if you believed you were sacrificing your life for a
great cause, stiking a blow against the enemy of your people?)
At the time, I guessed this resolute behavior implied the pilots
knew the towers would fall eventually regardless, and this implied
someone had done a full engineering study of the effects of the
impact, and jet fuel. And all done in total, leakproof secrecy.
Very impressive!

All this suggested some major state operation, not the work of a bunch
of desperate terrorists. Who could it have been?
I discounted the US government, then, since I couldn't believe they
would target either the headquarters of their military, or the pinacle
of their banking system. Some prominent symbol of America, like the
Statue of Liberty, or Golden Gate Bridge or Washington Monument, yes.
When I noticed that the event was exactly one year and one month
after the sinking of the Russian submarine Kursk, in highly suspicious
circumstances, I thought I had pinned the culprits. KGB, or whatever
they call themselves these post-Soviet days.

Bad guess. Though I can't help thinking of the 1-1 symbolism, the one
year, one month. Chance? Or did someone chose that day, just to add
more confusion to the 'who dun it' scramble. Maybe the KGB were intended
to be a fallback culprit, if something went wrong with the Bin Laden
story (like the hijackers turning up alive and well somewhere.)

This is a piece we'll have to leave off to the side, for the moment,
along with all the other numerology jumble.


Another phoney war. Who benefits this time?
-------------------------------------------

The 'War on Terrorism' is to terror organisations as the
'War on Drugs' is to drug producers and distributors.

Think Orwelian double-speak here - where authorities pretend to be
thinking and doing exactly the opposite of their real agendas and
methods.

That is, just as the CIA is today the primary producer and distributor
of hard drugs, with the following benefits to the US administration:
1. Lots of profit, in cash, usable to support more black ops.
2. Maintains a political environment at home in which repressive
   measures will continue to be accepted by the citizenry.
3. Provides a convenient justification for all sorts of military
   and paramilitary involvement in subject (ie poor) nations around
   the world.
4. Justifies large amounts of tax funds being allocated to the security
   and military industrial sector (ie friends of the administration.)
5. Creates a pool of 'grey allegience' violent criminals, who can be
   used to perform plausibly denyable special operations.

So the US government creates, trains and funds 'terrorist organisations'
and their operations, with the following benefits to the administration:
1. Maintains a political environment at home in which even more
   extreme repressive measures will be accepted by the citizenry.
2. Provides a convenient justification for all sorts of military
   and paramilitary involvement in subject (ie poor) nations around
   the world. But on a much larger scale than mere drug production.
   Terrorism (with enough pain inflicted on US citizens) allows for
   justification of major military actions, such as the complete
   obliteration of civil infrastructure, and military occupation of,
   entire nations. Such as Afghanistan - where the US wants to build
   and run an oil pipeline, contrary to the wishes of Afghanistanis.
3. Vast profits, from subsequent theft of national assets of the victim
   nation states, and even entire regions.
4. Justifies huge amounts of tax funds being allocated to the military
   industrial sector (ie friends of the administration.)
5. Creates a pool of 'grey allegience' terrorists, who can be
   used to perform plausibly denyable special operations.


Media vs The Net
----------------

Those reading this article will likely have been, as I have, watching
both the mainstream news media (and their websites), and comparing
those stories to the quality, quantity and variety of news turning
up on the many independent net news and comment sites.
You can hardly have failed to notice the almost schizophrenic contrast
between the mainstream media, and the independent net news sites.

From the mediagov: nothing but stories of arabic terrorists, and the
brilliant job the FBI has done in tracing their Al Quaeda past, their
movements, the flying lessons, Bin Laden, the brave passengers, etc.

From the independent net: an endless, awesome stream of large and
small details that just don't fit the official story. Of connections
and meetings, records of actions indicating prior knowledge in many
quarters, of objectives and motives, of slipups and cover stories
falling apart, of gross distortions and lies from official sources.

It would be absolutely safe to assume that without the internet, we,
the people of the world community, would have literally no chance of
getting to the bottom of this horrendous conspiracy. Or even of gaining
a certainty that it does, indeed, stink to the heavens.
We might, individually, have our personal doubts about the whole affair.
But it would go little further than that. Some few people might uncover
isolated details, and put them together by mail or phone amongst their
close associates. Now and then a maveric dissenting article might make
it into the mediagov stream. Yet lacking public mass broadcast ability,
and convenient ability to search archives of past stories, things would
go no further. The conspirators would prevail, and comfortably at that.

So now we find ourselves in a battle between truth and deception,
between the nets and the media barons, the people and the would-be
global rulers. Perhaps it is the last chance, the last, great battle.
For the conspirators have already granted themselves the tools required
for the subjugation of the free internet, in the combination of recent
anti-terrorist legislation that defines 'hacking' as a terrorist act,
and the inexorably tightening noose of 'copyright control' legislation
that will inevitably transform the home PC into a closed, neutered box.
Government would dearly love to restrict their citizens to computers
incapable of supporting 'disruptive technology' such as 'viral' (says MS)
open source operating systems, anonymous communication, strong encryption,
and even open, public discussion on a unified internet.

Its easily demonstrable that the forces of media control are actively
at work on the net, both in spreading disinformation, and suppressing
independent reporting. For instance, here's a simple experiment you can
try yourself: Search for keywords such as wtc, conspiracy, 911, 9-11 in
any combination, or alone. Try it with google.com, and sample all of
the links on the first few pages. Then do the same with altavista.com.
Notice anything? Google seems to still reside in the Land of the Free,
while Altavista could be representing the United Soviet America, for all
that you'll find any trace of those 'unpatriotic conspiracy mongers' in
their listings. Fine if you want the Wyoming Tennis Club, or sites like
'Why Christians Should Reject Conspiracy Theories', but damm-all else.

Another useful experiment is to search for sites containing detailed
stories about all those heroic mobile phone calls from the doomed planes.
Notice anything about which sites these are, overall? All 'big money'
ones, like MSNBC. (Ref: 'The Real Story of Flight 93') And their stories
are really masterful works of disinformation, dripping with masses of
supporting detail, and truly heart rending. I can barely forgive myself
for doubting them. Someone has put a lot of work into these.



In closing, a very, very scary paranoid thought
-----------------------------------------------

This last section is dedicated to President Bush Jnr's own advice to his
military planners, regarding the new Endless War: "Think the unthinkable."

Some years ago I watched a TV documentary, by a Canadian group, covering
various mysteries surrounding the assasinations of the Kennedies. Mostly,
it dealt with the second killing, and inconsistencies in the official
story. Things like there being more bullet holes in the room than bullets
in Sirhan's gun. That Sirhan was always to the front and some distance
from Kenedy, but Kennedy's wounds were the result of point blank shots,
from behind. That crucial material evidence (bullet holed door frames,
etc) was mysteriously vanished from FBI storage. That to this day Sirhan
believes he must have been the shooter, but claims he has no recollection
whatsoever of the events. Overall, the evidence presented was very
unsettling.

The documentary then shifted to claims that the CIA had, for decades even
then, been running a programme of research into techniques for mind control.
Of the 'hypnotic suggestion' type btw, not the 'psychic connection' or
'implants in back of neck' varieties so favoured by new age and UFO believers.
They related some evidence that, using no-holds-barred techniques (sensory
deprivation, drugs, torture, sleep deprivation, etc, combined with hypnosis),
the CIA had achieved virtually complete success. That is, that by the sixties
they had working methods of completely programming any given individual, to
behave exactly as required. And that the individual would not even later be
aware that they had been programmed - programmed to perform any act, to
behave in any manner, to do so to an arranged schedule or prompting event,
and even to later be unaware of what they had done, or why.

Witnesses were interviewed who claimed to have had personal involvement with
this research. One claimed to personally have known the man who 'programmed'
Sirhan - Kennedy's 'killer'. Who was actually just the distraction and fall
guy, for the real assasains, who were among Kennedy's bodyguards.
This technique worked very well, and the media (controlled even then) were
able to hold together the public story despite some leakage of awkwardly
inconsistent facts.

Anyway, the point is that this (and quite a few other instances) strongly
suggest that the CIA (and likely other such security services) do have some
effective mind control techniques. From various hints, it seems that a person
may only have to disappear for as little as a week, to have been turned into
a likely unwitting tool and/or fall guy for some government planned psyop.
Mr Bryant, in his solitary world wanderings, had passed through the USA
several times. He didn't have anyone expecting him home on any schedule.
He wasn't even a fully developed individual, mentally. He'd have been a
perfect candidate for some CIA mind programming.

But all this is hearsay and supposition. Worrying in itself, yet not the
_really_ scary thought I want to share. Which is this:
Supposing that the Port Arthur massacre, and the TWA 800 shoot-down really
were trial runs for the S-11 main act. Whether they were connected or not,
its clear that in each case there were considerable numbers of people
involved, knowingly, before and after the events, in committing mass
murder against their own country's innocent citizens.

I cannot help but cry - how can this be?! Surely _someone_ in these groups
would rediscover their moral conscience, and leak, if not the whole story,
then at least some crucially damming evidence in their possession? Even at
admittedly great personal risk? Surely, someone would blow a whistle?
Still, they have not, even after all this time.
This is the central, impossible contradiction in these conspiracy theories- 
that the acts are _so_despicable_, that the apparent universal silence of
all informed participants is simply unbelievable.

And yet, the evidence mounts, the certainty hardens, that in S-11, as with
TWA 800 and Port Arthur, there was planning, guilt, collusion, coverup,
fabrication, and lies abundant, among those we trusted as our governments.

The contradiction grows in tension, beyond all reasonable understanding.
In attempting to relieve this impossible state, many decide that the only
possible explanation is that no conspiracies exist. That they _cannot_,
else some guilty human would inevitably have spoken out. It seems as if
nothing else is conceivable.

But _only_if_ those involved in the coverups are still ruled by human
hearts, human minds. Which might not be the case, if those who guide
this evil enterprise have mastered the ability to significantly shape
the minds of those who serve them. Beyond mere threat and bribery,
beyond peer pressure and corrupted morals, into the realm of actual
mind control.

If the money elite, the originators of the New World Order plans, those
behind the crumbling of the US constitution, and civil rights worldwide,
those behind world wide suffering under inhuman tyranies of the World Bank
and US foreign policies, behind the destruction of the twin towers and
Pentagon, and four, five or six airliners - if the money elite have such
power, and can perform it conveniently, quickly and undetectably on their
own underlings and other problem individuals, then these are grim days
indeed for human freedom.




--------------------A few good links------------------------------------

http://www.rense.com/
http://www.globalism.com.au/conspiracy.html
http://WhatReallyHappened.com/quotes.html
http://www.freeworldalliance.com/newsflash1100.htm
http://www.cyberspaceorbit.com/WTCspiracy.htm
http://www.johnpilger.com/
http://www.totse.com/en/conspiracy/mind_control/disinfor.html
http://www.thepalmerpress.com/
http://vialls.homestead.com/            (Great info, really bad html)
http://geocities.com/vialls/index.html  (ditto. Mr Vials, want some html help?)
http://www.politechbot.com/   (Mailing list for tech/politics)
http://serendipity.magnet.ch/wtc.html
http://www.copvcia.com
    (especially http://www.copvcia.com/stories/nov_2001/lucy_print.html
    plus the later correction)
http://www.rotten.com/news/
http://www.jimmarrs.com/
http://www.nexusmagazine.com/
http://www.AlMartinRaw.com/
http://www.almartinraw.com/column34.html
http://emperors-clothes.com/indict/andrewsmap.htm   Alias: http://www.tenc.net
http://www.larouchepub.com
http://www.norfed.org/articles/nazi.asp  (incl list of links)
http://www.skolnicksreport.com/pkem.html
http://www.conspiracyplanet.com/
http://www.konformist.com
http://www.realityzone.com/granddeception.html
http://www.fpp.co.uk/docs/Irving/RadDi/RadDi170901.html
http://www.joelskousen.com/hotissues.html
http://September11.archive.org     A collaboration of:
   Library of Congress   www.loc.gov
   Internet Archive      www.archive.org   (Wayback Machine -*GREAT*)
   webArchivist.org      www.webarchivist.org
http://www.dailyreckoning.com     Gary North's REALITY CHECK
http://AntiWar.com/
http://www0.mercurycenter.com/local/center/ladenill1228.htm


