From guyd@zip.com.au Mon Jan 14 14:15:53 2002
Date: Sun, 13 Jan 2002 22:39:54 +1100
From: Guy Dunphy <guyd@zip.com.au>
To: predator@cat.org.au
Subject: Something surprising

Hi Mike,

>A few years ago, you did me an immense favour by informing me
>of the work of Philo Farnsworth. This reoriented my entire
>life's ambition, by demonstrating that the 'crazy idea' I'd
>had long ago, wasn't crazy at all.


I think, in fact, it was you who informed me of his work. I 
remember you laying the rant down as we sat in a park in Balmain
drying off in the sun after exploring a buried tram counterweight 
tunnel. You possessed texts of hard math re ball lightning physics
long before I'd ever considered the phenomenon as amenable to 
analysis. I think, if I did anything, it was simply to not 
pooh-pooh out of hand your interest therein. Oh, and I did 
assist in the acquisition of certain bits of high-vacuum hardware.

>I hope, perhaps, you may find the information that follows of
>similar significance.

>You've had a lot of grief in your life with and due to religion.
>We both hate it. We both think its all entirely mad. We both find
>it nearly infinately depressing that mankind is prone to such
>stupitity.


I've wondered, in my darker moments, if this affliction - 
susceptibility to religions - is actually of some weak benefit to humans,
in much the same way as the terrible scourge of sickle-cell anaemia
renders its sufferers partially more resistant to death from malaria.
Is the tendancy to remember a half-baked crazy copy of historical 
events and write it up in one's culture as "god punished us for doing
such-and-such" better than to not remember anything at all? Sadly, yes,
so long as the behaviour assists in the propagation of the species.
Evolution, if offered a choice between no information recording at all,
and lossy, distortion-filled noise, will select 
for even quite lossy history recording and relatively 
poor information discrimination tendancies - which might partly be
why so much of humanity can stay glued, uncritically and uncomprehendingly, 
to CNN and other branches of the myth factory. Of course, with the advent
of written texts this lossiness largely went away, so evolution has 
selected very strongly in favour if this skill - the societies which 
exhibit it have histories extending back for centuries, which even 
now reveal amazing things, like: witchcraft was the name given to 
ergot poisoning, claviceps purpurea is the fungus which infected
the rye which was made into the bread which the locals ate. It gave
them hallucinations, convulsions and miscarriages. Lacking chem,
what else would the meme-infested church put it down to? 


>Well, guess what? I've just discovered that there seems to have
>been, originally, a perfectly sensible and physical basis for
>what has evolved into our present (ie last 2000 years) looney
>tunes pantheon.


It's interesting. You've pointed me in the direction of the 
video documentary "Ten Plagues of Egypt" which I have unfortunately
been unable to pin down (Red tides, grain fungus, locusts, etc etc -
all of which are still functioning in the biosphere). This in itself, 
conceptually, is excellent meme-vaccination fodder. There are 
other interesting things in my mental list:

Metalsmithing gods from various different cultures all have limps - arsenic 
poisoning of their sciatic nerves or some such, secondary to breathing in
metal oxide vapours (etc) while smelting or working at the forge.

Vampires (there's a known dental developmental disease which makes canine
teeth pointy)... dwarfs (achondroplasia)... pixies (people with a broken
leptin receptor gene, who never get puberty!)... the cultures encode them all. 

Another thing I'm trying to track down is a disaster in 535BC - Plinean
vulcanism which knocked the shit out of agricultural societies the world
over by producing a famine worldwide for thirty years while the
pyroclastic dust settled from the stratosphere. Lacking anything like
tectonics or geology, one might well blame that one on the gods. 

Culinary and sexual habits codified in religions are there mainly as 
reflections of optimum foraging theory :

( most taboo animals are not eaten
because they're not good to eat but rather they're very expensive in 
terms of farming them with loads of other foods which humans could eat
instead : See 

Harris, Marvin "Good to Eat" Waveland Press Inc ISBN 1-57766-015-3
Harris, Marvin "Cannibals and Kings" Vintage Press ISBN 9-780679-728498
)

but also for the prevention of transmission of sexual diseases 
and/or fertile women (reproductive resources to particular economic classes
and thereby to preserve a social strata (mainly that of the people pushing 
the religion.

However, in the light of humanity's continued infection with religion, 
against which authors like Dawkins have at least provided a vaccine, 
it seems better to me to create something religious in its cultural nature but 
fundamentally scientific in its dogma and content. Whinging about 
christianity, islam, corporate capitalism and a zillion other delusional
architectures is pointless unless one provides for the afflicted something
else to which they can turn in order to understand the universe - but 
scientifically. We need a believable disbelief system. Science as we do it 
seems to fit the bill, and has been successful, but for many people it 
appears not to answer their really emotionally-laden existential questions.
It is important for humanity's sake that science be equipped with something
insidious but self-explanatory of this nature. Jim Lovelock did something 
like it with the Gaia hypotheses, but I don't think it went deeply enough. 
It scratched the surface of the deeply information-transformative nature 
of the physical universe and the interactions of the things within (with
little phrases here and there, like "the kidney is an information processing
organ" - which it is!) but didn't ram it home to humans the fundamentally
informational nature of their existance ... cells and their Turing-mechanical
nature, errors, ageing, and so on and so forth. If people can be convinced,
a la Nell in "This Diamond Age" of the amazing, astoundingly excellently 
elegance of their own computational engineering, would they any longer need
a god?

>Again, it was a confluence of two, independent sources of information,
>which each alone would not have seemed very significant.
>One, is a book I found in Goulds, called 'The Cosmic Winter' by
>Victor Clube & Bill Napier. 

Thanks for the ref.

> The other is a short column article
>in the current (Jan-Feb 2002) issue of New Dawn.
>Here is the text of that article. I continue below it.
>----------------------------------------------------------------
>Meteor clue to end of ancient civilisations
<chop>
>Dr Benny Peiser, who lectures on the effects of meteor impacts at John
>Moores University, Liverpool, said that craters recently found in
>Argentina date from around the same period - sugesting that Earth may
>have been hit by a shower of large meteors at about the same time.
>
>(Source: The London Telegraph, 4 November 2001)
>---------------------------------------------------------------------

The sediments will reveal what he seeks if it is there. I don't know about
the statistical distribution of comets or interplanetary/interstellar 
bolides generally, they certainly could smash a civilisation remote from
the impact site via global darkening, etc, but don't think we should rule out
catastrophic pyroclastic activity either. The Deccan Traps were active for 
thousands of years before the K/T boundary bolide... some evidence suggests
many species were in decline before the Big Rock kicked them and the 
dinosaurs over the edge 65MA ago.

>OK, interesting. But I read that while some way into the book I mentioned.
>Electric!

>The book's basic thesis is that around 5 to 10 K years ago, one or two
>very large comets appeared, on Earth intersecting orbits. And that early
>civilisation was smashed _several_times_, with typical cometary period
>intervals of safety between each wave of impacts. And most importanly
>(for us religion haters) the early myths were actually records of the
>cyclic occurence of the comet(s). The amount of research the authors have
>done into old mythology, and the usual linguistic fuck-ups that occur
>when people try to translate the 'sense' (as they see it) of a script,
>rather than just transcribe the bloody words, is amazing!
>You have to read this book!

An ISBN would help, I will probably acquire it thru Bookfinder.com.
Impending acquisition: the collected papers of Claude Shannon. $A250. Ow. 

>I'm still only part way through. There may be more copies in Goulds-
>it was in the 'science' section upstairs. Has a green spine, white
>title. Cover has pic of Manhattan, with standing WTC towers (ironic)
>and iced-up water in foreground.

I would search but Goulds is searchable only in non-polynomial time, 
which I am now somewhat less frivolous in spending (funny how when 
one turns 30 one thinks... oooh shit, mortality!)

>If you can't find one, you'll have to wait till I'm finished reading
>my copy. And I do want it back eventually.

Natch. Thanks for the offer.

>The way he traces the gradual decay of a realistic attempt to describe
>real objects in the heavens, as a record and forecast of when the
>world had been (and would be again) clobbered rather severely, into a
>slew of sensless religions once the comet debree trail had become
>harmless, and the comets themselves had long faded....   a joy.

I bet! Sort of sad though.

>Its still kind of depressing, but not so bad as if we humans just
>made up all that nuttiness out of thin air, with no excuse for
>getting so deadly serious about it all.

>I was reading the book with a kind of academic detachment (yeah, nice
>theory), when I read the other article above. Effective proof, and
>one of those amazing coincidences of timing.

Perhaps worth writing in the book's back cover the reference to the article?

>Wonder when the next one is due in? The thought occurs that if humans
>have been around for 100K years, and we just had about 3K years of
>quiet, after another few K-years of regular trashings, what about
>the previous 90K or so years? All quiet? Or regularly thrashed?
>Might explain why it took us so dammed long to get it together.
>Or maybe there really _were_ long lost high civilisations, just
>not extensive enough to show up in the records.

Difficult to know. Should the hallmark of a high civ be that its non-decomposable
garbage (tools) is widely distributed enough to be locatable by subsequent generations?

Humanity should not be considered the only player here. Humanity got off the
ground because of agriculture (domesticable plants to eat) and animal husbandry 
(domesticable animals to eat and use for various tasks... transport, food, war).
If enough of these props were smashed down by such impact events it wouldn't have
mattered what humans did, we'd still be too tool-deprived and 
resource-impoverished to get it together, build cities and have the division of 
labour which freed people up enough to make it worthwhile to learn writing and
so on instead of plowing the dirt all day just to eke out a nutritional living.

Climate changes also have a role to play in the propagation of the sort of plagues
which brought Constantinople, and also large mesoamerican cities of 200,000 people,
to their knees... a two degree difference in climate changes the clotting properties
of blood in fleas; if on the cool side, the fleas can't swallow the blood from what
they bite so, starved, they bite many more things, including humans, propagating the
bubonic plague so much more effectively. I wonder what the impending few degrees of 
hydrocarbon-induced global warming will do epidemiologically.


As for the big conspiracy synthesis, you have woven quite a strong rug - I'm surprised 
Rense didn't host it (so host it yerself!). I suspect you're spending possibly too 
much CPU on it. It is *designed* to obfuscate people and slow them down, tie up their
time trying to make sense of it. The only winning move is not to play. The machinery of
evil has worked fundamentally the same way for all of history.


Cheeries...

<predator>

