I have yet to use Salvia. Salvia, not saliva. That is the latin word for sage, and 
the plant I am talking about is a subspecies of sage, specifically Salvia Divinorum, the 
Sage of the Diviners. It is a hallucinogen. I intend to try it, probably by smoking a small 
dose of 5x strength concentrated salvia extract; a very small dose, probably- I have 
never taken any hallucinogens before, except weed, and I do not want to rush into 
things. Here are some bits of information I have collected about the plant's 
hallucinogenic properties.
	First, it seems that this is not really a drug you take for fun. The experience 
sounds like an interesting one, but unlike pot or alcohol, it will not make you euphoric. 
>From what I have read, it seems that Salvia has few emotional effects, if any- emotions 
you feel during the trip are likely to be reactions to the hallucinations, rather than 
caused by the Salvia itself.
Salvia should be used with care. The experience can be very intense, to the 
extent that people who use it sometimes report complete loss of touch with the normal 
consensus reality. It may not be a pleasant experience. Like with all drugs, people with 
mental disorders should be especially careful.
I strongly recommend against combining Salvia with anything. Most of the bad 
experiences I have heard about have occurred when someone has mixed it with 
something else. Bad experiences can happen even when you take it by itself, though. 
To illustrate, here are the worst two Salvia experiences I have read. They are taken 
from www.erowid.org .
"Splitting in Two
     Salvia
    by Cody
BODYWEIGHT : 140 lb
 My roommate and i had obtained 1 gram of 5x Salvia divinorium. Upon looking 
at the vial, in respect to the wide range of reports which i'd researched eagerly on 
erowid and the lycaeum, i really wasn't sure what to expect. Quite honestly, mental 
rape would be a light description of what occurred. I don't know what all those other 
psychonauts were smoking when they talk about seeing entities, or projecting into other 
lives, as the experience i had was vastly more disturbing and disorienting than i was 
prepared for, and vastly different than the aforementioned reports. 
 I smoked about two full tokes and a third, lighter inhalation, and after setting the 
pipe down (i used a black TATTOO pipe), i was immediately transported into what i can 
easily describe as the most frightening experience i've had with a drug. The 
environment is still there with eyes open, but it's as if there is some strange, digitalized 
visual 'noise' which breaks it down into a picture much too distorted to be recognizable. 
That wasn't so bad, but the somatic/bodily effects caught me completely unprepared. It 
was as if i was split in two; right brain/left brain and their corresponding body parts 
became essentially two different entities, independent of one another. Imagine, if you 
will, a single entity consisting of a leg, some torso, and an arm, connected to a 
relatively identical, yet opposite entity by what felt to be mere elastic material (skin). 
 I lifted my arm and my hand looked alien and visually displeasing--the fingers 
seemed more like thick, animalistic appendages, each distinctly individual. 
 It was as if the salvia broke my perception of self into its true, separate 
components, and allowed my Self to explore them on that level.
 Instead of seeing a hand, i saw 5 almost tube-like appendages connected by a 
bit of insignificant flesh. Instead of feeling my Self as one thing, i felt every facet in its 
separate existence and relationship with one another. Other visuals crowded in which i 
can barely remember correctly to convey; however, my immediate reaction to this 
physical disorientation, especially since the 'feel' of it was so vastly beyond what i 
expected, was panic. The only thing that kept me (if i could've done it) from killing 
myself was the knowledge that the salvia was so short acting. 
 I tried it again last night, with similar results, except this time i had some music 
playing, and i had the wherewithal to ease into this experience with some previous 
frame of reference. Closing my eyes, it seemed that the music and every thought i had 
would move in a strange counter-clockwise square-like pattern underneith my eyelids. 
 This drug seems to 'hold' you in place unless you truly let yourself go. The more 
one resists, the more caged and psychically claustraphobic one feels. I didn't leave my 
body or the environment, but provided there is no distraction, and provided one lets go 
absolutely, i could see how such 'projection' could be conceivable. Admittedly, i was 
resistent; something i hope to rectify in the future. 
 Short acting trip, tapering into something immediately much more tolerable and 
mentally stimulating. This drug does not activate any emotive response from me--it 
seems entirely mental, and after the trips, i noted an increased sharpness in my 
perceptions, in color, touch and especially thought. 
 This is NOT a recreational drug. This drug makes liquid acid seem like sugar 
water. I can see how this particular 'diviner's sage' would be for the serious student of 
the mind and perception. 
 As such, i was quite impressed. I've always been very adaptive due to the 
nature of my own existence, so my recovery despite its extreme nature was relatively 
immediate, as was the value i received from the experience in retrospect. 
 First of all, it reminded me of the very real nature of my physical existence, 
which is the beautiful and fascinating coordination of an intricate biological machine. 
Separate components acting as one in an automatic sense. Remarkable, and truly 
something i'd forgotten to appreciate. 
 Second, it showed me that consciousness in the typical 'sober' state isn't nearly 
as challenging as i, and others, sometimes believe it to be. This mundane life is easy, 
even if it is boring. 
 We may very well have only touched upon the point before breaking through to 
the plateaus/hyperspace so often portrayed in the reports i've read. To determine this, 
my friend and i will be trying the 10x shortly. 
  2000"
That one sounded pretty unpleasant, although I would disagree with the phrase 
'mental rape' being applied to it. It was obviously not so unpleasant as to scare the user 
off Salvia. Next report:
"Close Encounter of the 10x Kind - Salvia (10x extract) - by Catfish J. Rivers.
    DOSE : bowls of smoked Salvia (extract - 10x)
    BODYWEIGHT : 275 lb
 Entheogens are supposed to help put one in touch with their god force within. 
Well, after smoking a bowl load of the 10x salvia I am convinced that, while there are 
indeed plants which show you all the inner light hullabaloo, there also exists certain 
plants which would invite 'darkness' to enter into one's consciousness. 
 What I felt that day was an invisible weight forcing my perception of reality to 
skew to the left and down, someone has tweaked my vertical hold knobbed much too 
far. I could sense myself hovering half in and half out of my body, with darkness filling 
out my right side. Slimey pins and needles tingled in my arms and legs for 10-15 
minutes. I felt very cold, although I was sweating profusely. At this stage, there was a 
lot of confusion, loss of memory. It is unpleasant enough to think there is a demon 
sitting on your chest, intent on stealing your soul, but what I saw next nearly iced my 
spine right over. The face of a grey alien, and then the rest of his body starts to flicker 
in and out of reality, in a choppy holographic way. 
 Suddenly, my awareness zooms within inches of the alien's face. I see my 
reflection cast in duplicate across those pale insect eyes. There is a rush of panic and 
mental static which eventually melts away into a battered sense of coherency. I feel I 
was given a clear message to stay away from this plant. Perhaps my mind has been 
poisioned with too much H.P. Lovecraft, but I swear that entering that mindset felt evil, 
all the way down through my spine, as if I shouldn't be trespassing on these here parts. 
 Now hold on to your souls because there is one last bit of freakyness to 
mention. While I was camping at the MOEDOWN festival, I met a kid who wanted to try 
salvia 10x. I don't know why I brought it with me, but I did. So, I dumped a bowl full for 
him, told him I'd babysit, and watched over him. He was certainly blasted out of normal 
space. His eyes peered through me, fixating at something only his slightly crossing 
eyes could see. He kept asking me to help him, so I had him lie down in a fetal position, 
placing a pillow beneath his head. Here and there I would mutter some assurance until 
finally he sat up, shot me this wierd accusing look, and said, 'I get it. I know what's 
wanted here.' Then he stood up and walked hurriedly away. Wow. That's what I must 
have looked like from the outside. Twitching confusion. Hours later, he came back in a 
much more sober state of mind. He related to me that he had hallucinated an alien that 
wanted to steal his soul. At the time he thought I was in on the whole soul napping 
deal. I was grateful to hear that this was recognized to be generally false upon entering 
a sober state. He also described that weird sensation of being weighed down by 
something icky. That was enough for me to hear. I had never told this kid my story 
before he tried the Salvia 10x, so when his description is CRAZY the same as mine I 
start to bug out...'And the Truth Shall Set You Free.' 
 I have found many allies in various ethnogens, Salvia however is not my ally. 
  2000"
I must admit that that experience report scared me a little. Interestingly, this 
report has many things in common with a sort of hallucination some people have 
experienced spontaneously while drifting between sleep and wakefulness. Neither 
experience sounds like one I could not cope with. These are the worst two experiences 
I have heard about when Salvia was used alone. Most of the experiences are 
significantly better. Some, where they have been combined with other things, are 
worse. Go to Erowid to read more. In fact, read as much as you can be bothered 
reading about this drug before taking it. It's good to know what you're dealing with 
beforehand.
One of Salvia's good points is that it is quite a short trip. According to most 
reports, you should be completely sober 2 hours after smoking it. The primary effects 
last only about half to one hour.
Many people have recommended that you use a sitter when you smoke Salvia- 
someone who is relatively sober, preferably experienced with the drug themselves, who 
will stay with you and make sure nothing bad happens. I may or may not follow this 
advice. I will probably be starting out with a very small dose. Something in the vicinity of 
1/15 of a gram of 5x extract, although I have no way of measuring that accurately.
Anyway. This document is just a brief introduction. The more important one will 
be the trip report, once I've taken it.
______________________________
Well. I have now had my first effect from Salvia Divinorum. It was actually my 
second attempt- I had tried once before, but with such a small quanity of material that I 
noticed no effect at all. This second time, I approximately doubled the dose. I would 
guess I took somewere between 1/15th and 1/20th of a gram- smoking half at a time, 
about two-three minutes apart. That's all very approximate. I smoked it through a small 
metal pipe, applying the flame from a microtorch lighter continuously. I inhaled deeply, 
directly into my lungs, trying to get the smoke in while it was still reasonably warm, 
hoping that the Salvinorin A would still be vaporised once it got to my lungs this way.
I find the taste from smoking Salvia quite pleasant. It is far less harsh than 
marijuana (although admittedly I wasn't smoking very much of it).
I did not do this completely drug free, as I had originally planned- I had been 
smoking marijuana earlier in the day, but the effects were more or less completely gone 
by the time I smoked the Salvia. The only effect I was still experiencing from the 
marijuana was a slight residual tiredness. This was probably added to by the fact that I 
performed the experiment at about 3:00 am, having woken and found myself unable to 
get back to sleep. So I felt a little tired, but not enough to be able to sleep.
First thing I did was turn off everything but the main light in my room. I needed 
that on so I could see what I was doing. I put the Salvia flakes into a my marijuana pipe 
(I had cleaned out most of the loose tar so I would not be getting too much THC with it) 
on top of  a small quantity of non-psychoactive herbs- just to stop the Salvia being 
pulled through the pipe without being burned. There was no music playing.
Having smoked the first cone, I turned the light off (I've been told that sitting in a 
quiet, dark room is good for Salvia experiences- it provides the experience, rather than 
altering other experiences). I sat there for a few minutes, probably two or three, seeing 
if anything would happen.
It's very easy to convince yourself that you could be getting an effect, if you've 
just smoked something you believe to be hallucinogenic, and you're sitting in the dark 
watching coloured afterimages fade from your retina. I do not believe I noticed anything 
significant in this period, though.
I then turned the light back on and put the other half of the material I had gotten 
out into the bowl, then smoked it the same way as before.
As I sat looking at the wall, the shadows on it started moving upward while 
staying in the same place. I watched this for a few minutes, laughing quite a lot. I think I 
was laughing more at the novelty of what was happening than because of any direct 
euphoric effects caused by the Salvia. I felt pretty happy, though.
I then stood up to turn the light off. Walking felt a bit odd, and my distance 
perception was all out- I was standing with my hand about half a metre from the light 
switch, I would now guess, leaning toward it and thinking "Come on, I must be about to 
hit the switch". I got the light switched off somehow, then sat back down in my 
comfortable chair, with a blanket to keep me warm.
Unfortunately, it did not seem quite so interesting without something to look at, 
and I think the effect was beginning to fade at this stage. After about five minutes, I 
decided that I felt like eating. Everything was still a little... different for a few minutes, 
but there were no more clear, identifiable effects. I ate some food, read for awhile, and 
went to sleep feeling perfectly normal. Except for possibly feeling a little tired, which is 
by no means unusual for me, I felt no after effects that I could possibly attribute to the 
Salvia
Anyway. That's my first Salvia experience. I smoked a small amount, and it took 
me off baseline. I got one very minor hallucination- more the sensation that the 
shadows were moving up the wall than actually watching them move- and my distance 
perception was affected. Everything looked a little wierd. Apart from that, I just felt 
generally off-baseline, about the same intensity as what I might feel after one or two 
hits from a joint- keeping in mind that I don't take in as much smoke per hit as most 
people. I felt completely normal 20 minutes later.
It was an interesting experience. I feel no immediate desire to rush out and 
repeat it, but I will continue to explore its effects at deeper levels. I will write more when 
I do. Next time, I am planning to use approximately 100-200% of what I used last time 
(aiming for about 1/10th to 1/15th of a gram), and I will try to take it in in a shorter space 
of time- all at once, rather than in two separate cones. I will consider asking someone 
to 'babysit' at deeper levels of exploration. I will continue to report on the experiences I 
get.
_____________________________________________
Next experience. Edited notes from directly after the experiment.
I smoked some more Salvia. About 10 minutes ago, I think. I believe that the 
effects are mostly finished. I still feel slightly off baseline, but I can write...
I smoked about 1/3 of a cone of 5x strength Salvia. Sorry, that's not a very exact 
measurement, I know. I took that in in two hits. Waited about 5 minutes, and nothing 
seemed to have happened. I packed about another 1/2 a cone and took one hit off it. 
Something was beginning to happen. Took another hit.
I turned around to face the window to blow the smoke out, having set the pipe 
and lighter down while holding the breath, probably for about 20-30 seconds. I was 
beginning to feel very strange. I had an odd sensation as if I had been talking to 
someone in front of me, and had just turned away from them; I half expected to see 
someone when I turned back. No-one there. I started laughing, a little manically.
I had another odd sensation; that I was laughing with someone who was lying 
on the bed to my right. I turned to look, saw no-one.
I continued laughing, and started nodding my head up and down and shaking it 
from side to side. I don't know why. Things looked rather odd as I did so, but I don't 
quite know how to describe that oddness.
So I sat there laughing crazily and shaking my head around. I was feeling quite 
hot, and was sweating quite a lot. The temperature was moderate, should not have 
been unpleasant. I had wrapped myself in a blanket to make myself comfortable. I 
stood up, laid the blanket out on the floor, and took my sweater off. Doing so felt odd.
I was still laughing intermittently. I suddenly realised that there was nothing to 
laugh at, and the fact of my laughing at nothing set me off laughing again.
After laying the blanket out on the floor (I don't know why I did that) I spent 
some time walking back and forth in a semicircle around the blanket, laughing. It just 
seemed like the thing to do.
Then (I think this is the order it happened in, anyway) I walked over to my desk. 
I felt that I had a purpose in doing so. I realised when I got there that I had no purpose, 
and that set me off laughing again. The very idea that I may have had a purpose 
seemed inexplicably hilarious. The realisation that it would not normally seem funny 
made me laugh more.
Quite quickly, I returned to normal. I went to wash my face to cool down. I 
looked in the mirror and my face had droplets of sweat on it. I washed my face and 
laughed a little more, in a more comfortable, less manic way. I then realised that I was 
quite cold, so I put my sweater back on.
I forgot to check the time before I started, so I don't know how long it lasted. I 
think the wierd part was about 10 minutes, and I may have felt slightly different for 
another 10-15 minutes after that (the period in which I wrote these notes).
2 small hits seemed to do nothing (although I now recall that I may have very 
briefly experienced some of the warped distance perception that I got last time). 
Another 2 hits, slightly larger, and everything went a little wierd for a short time.
Retrospective comments:
The transition between normal and quite-definitely-not-normal was quite abrupt. 
It did not exactly ease me into it. It could be a little disconcerting. I laughed a lot, but it 
was a somewhat uncomfortable, crazy sort of laughter. Enjoyable, but not like the pot-
induced euphoria that I'm more accustomed to.
I did not 'hallucinate' in the sense of seeing things that are not there. My vision 
was affected- things looked very different- but everything I saw was real.
I can't quite express what it was like to be under Salvia's influence. I can only 
really write down the things that happened, and some of the things I thought or felt. The 
experience of that state of being is more than that, but I don't know how to describe it.
