She met him at a party. She was frightened of him. Frightened he would pass judgment on her. She was dressed for a poetry reading she was going to after the party. Red everywhere. Toenails, lips, dress, slip. Brushed and glossed. He disapproved of fashion. He drew attention to the way he was dressed himself. He found his boots. She thought he might disapprove of people who do not find their own boots. She bought her shoes. Useless, flimsy, pretty. She could not remember how the topic came up. 
They sat in a sort of circle in the living room. It was before the party started. The music was quiet. He thought it was either Tori Amos or Kate Bush. She said it was Tori Amos. She had listened to this record a lot. Perhaps a hundred times. It was hard to estimate how often you listened to a record. Sometimes a record can be listened to so much you feel as if it's still playing even when it's not. You keep hearing sections of it in your head when you're on the bus or something. But if you listened to a record more than once a day, well, it's unlikely that there'd be a record that you liked that much. There are some you like that much, but mostly once per day is enough, even for records that are really good. But she thought she'd listened to this record about a hundred times. She wondered if he disapproved of people who liked Tori Amos. If he disapproved of Tori Amos. She wondered later if he was piecing her together the way she was piecing him together. She always worried about doing this, because it was always likely that she'd think she'd gained an accurate impression of him and would say something that betrayed her assessment of his character, and it wouldn't be accurate at all, and it would upset him or at least make him think that she was a really strange person. 
She wondered why she was having such an intense reaction to this man rather than some other person at the party. It was partly because she thought he was arrogant at first. He talked quite a lot, and she thought that being able to talk a lot to people you didn't know meant that you were really comfortable with yourself or at least with the people at the party, or else very nervous and overcompensating for the fact you were nervous by talking a lot. It wasn't that she thought the man was doing that now; she wasn't sure what he was doing. And that was why she was so interested in him. He irritated her slightly, and she wanted to understand why she was irritated rather than scratching at the irritation. She wanted to start trying to understand things, rather than simply reacting to them. She had noticed that she often responded to things by getting angry, even to things that no sane person would consider anger-provoking. Like people who knew more than she did, or seemed to be more comfortable with themselves than she was. She often interpreted this kind of confidence as arrogance, and it was only when she was able to separate the emotional reactions she had to people from what was objectively happening that she felt safe around them. This was incredibly difficult to do.
