File: Sog.doc
Cont: Sex, kidnapping, bondage, drug use, anti-religious reference.
Warn: If you are offended by graphic sex imagery, or are of a heartfelt
      religious persuasion, please consider that the document may offend
      you or modify your opinion in unpredictable ways.
Date: 20 Aug 01998
By  : <p r e d a t o r>

One fine morning Servent Of God (hereinafter referred to as Sog) lay asleep
in his bed. The sun arose in the east, spilling light into his room, and 
Sog gradually awoke, thinking about what a great wank he had the previous
evening. He was far too guilty about sex to consider doing it with a woman
outside of marriage, wanking was bad enough... wasn't every sperm sacred or
something? Ah, but you had to admit, splattering sperm on your belly really
did feel kinda good.
 
Suddenly there was a loud thud on his bedroom door (which he had locked in 
order to prevent God seeing him wanking himself), quickly followed by 
another louder kick which slammed the door open, and Sog was set upon by 
a tall, long-haired redhead woman in leather, who with one arm clamped him in
a headlock while the other arm pressed a pillow to his face, restricting his 
airway and despite his struggles, causing him to fall limp and unconscious.
 
He awoke sometime later securely strapped by the hands and feet to a table in 
a gloomy room, with a sore neck. He was slightly cold, being clad only in his 
shirt and undies. There was the sound of approaching footsteps. He couldn't 
move his head. Into his field of view came the redhead again, looking down 
upon her captive with a broad smile. "Help me Jesus! Who are you... why am 
I here?" he said, fearful that something terrible awaited him.
 
"I am Satana, I am the Anti-Godess, and I am here to rescue you from Faith," 
she said in a husky voice, with her pouting lips framing each word with
great delicacy; "Faith, particularly religious faith, is a terrible disease 
which afflicts many, but in your case has a particularly terrible hold, 
and is deadening your life in many aspects; worse, it is using you to spread
itself around, and you can't help it.... you think you're doing people a 
favour, when in fact you're just infecting them with your own vile disease."

"I will cure you by smashing you with the most massive wave of pleasure you 
will ever experience. Unfortunately for you, you will never savour it, you 
will repress it and feel guilty about it, since your faith demands this of 
you... a faith derived from priests, educators, parents and the mainstream 
media, and which you uncritically accepted since, as a child, you had no 
option." 

Sog looked around nervously, and asked Satana "What's gonna happen to me?"

She looked down at him with a sad face. She sighed. "Eventually, the guilt and
horror caused by this blissful episode will eat away at your personality, and
it will either send you mad or force you to make a choice to abandon, or 
rather - forcibly eject - Christianity and all related authoritarian joiner
memes from your brain. Either is better than living the lie you live now. 
Sometimes, though, the experience itself effects a rapid cure."

She turned to a small table with equipment on it. "Down to business, then."

She grabbed his arm gently and wiped it down with ethanol. "I'm going to just
administer something to help your poor, befuddled little brain to assimilate 
the experience." She slapped his arm and he flinched as she drove the needle
into his veinous system. "Jesus - save me!" Sog sobbed, farting with terror.

"You can call upon your God to save you..." she said, shaking her head 
slightly, "but he's not coming... what is coming is 250mg, hydrochloride salt 
of MDMA; 25ug, the dextro form of lysergic acid diethylamide, and 20mg of 
diacetylmorphine. The first will make you explode with love for all things, 
including people infected with strains of Faith different to your own. 
The heroin will drag the experience up in intensity rather a lot, and then, 
LSD will strip away the rigid, rather parametric manner in which you think, 
rip you out of, then weave you back into the infinite fabric of the universe. 
There's always my patient ministrations which are coming shortly, when the 
first two neurotransmitter analogues start to work."

"And don't think that this is something you didn't want, either. Passionate
sex, and personal intimacy, are vital to the human state. I come to people
like yourself- lonely, afraid, susceptible to Faith and belief and other 
diseases like it, who really need this... and I find," she said as she deftly
picked up the scalpel, "this method produces the best results."

She rapidly lunged down with the blade and stopped just above his teeshirt.
"Won't be needing this..." she said, as she guided the blade through the 
fabric and down towards his rapidly swelling undies. Deft slices opened the
sleeves, fully exposing sogs pale, sunken, hairless, pimply chest.  

The smack was starting to weave its magic, and sog's pupils dilated as it 
blew its effect throughout his brain. "Oh, god!" He shivered as Satana 
dragged a hard fingernail slowly down his midline, leaving a red mark on his
goosepimpled flesh. "NO god!" she snarled, driving a fingernail pointedly into
his abdomen. "Ordinary men produced this magic, German chemists back in the 
1940s, as it happens. The thrill you're feeling is all happening in your
head. There is no god. There is only you and what goes on in your mind."
She clamped the scalpel in her perfect white teeth, then cocked her head and 
reached towards the table again, retrieving a bottle of scented massage oil. 

She removed the cork and poured the runny, frangipanni smelling fluid onto 
him, a precise splash starting just below his jaw and ending, pointedly, on 
his terrified undies, which revealed, upon her closer inspection, the timid 
tip of his virgin penis protruding from beneath the elastic. She replaced the 
bottle and stood beside him, rubbing her hands along his oiled body, taking 
special care to avoid his dick. After a few minutes of this she cupped his 
tear-stained face between her long fingers, and opened her jaw to let the
blade clatter to the table beside his left ear. "You have nothing to fear",
she said, and pressing her lips to his, drove her tongue into his mouth, Sog
finding himself strangely unable to keep his jaw clamped shut. She danced
on his tongue, ignoring his halitosis and stroking his neck with her
thumbs as he slowly yielded more to her advance as the MDMA flooded his
brain with empathy for life and all things in the universe.
 
She pried herself from his mouth. His arms strained against the ropes. "Never 
been with a woman yet, have you?" she accused, rhetorically. "No matter. Now's
a good time to start, I think. Have you ever been truly loved, physically? 
I think not. Women are more than something to fuck. We are here to initiate
men into the state of manhood. Women are the part of humanity which you men,
in this society, are not allowed to express. I will act as the instrument 
through which the combined love of humanity can be channelled into you for
this briefest of moments. I am here to connect you to the replicating nature
of the data system which is encoded into our DNA, by endowing you your first
act of real genetic data transfer." 
 
She peeled open her leather jacket to reveal a supple, lithe, muscular upper 
body, from which there protruded a prominent pair of strong collarbones,
well-machined arms and truly beautiful breasts, which sat proudly upon her 
pectoral muscles. She slid it off and let it flop on the floor. His penis 
pulsed against the damp fabric, despite his religiously-ingrained fear of
fornication. She looked along him, he was tense, not with terror now, but
utter excitement. She worked an index finger along his midline, deliberately 
hooking it under the elastic and dragging the briefs downwards a little way.
His excited member jumped as she dragged a nail through the tiny drop of clear
pre-come at the eye of his dick, and up and down his shaft. He gasped as she
picked up the scalpel and brought it to within a hair's breadth of his soft
genital skin, then he gradually relaxed as he understood she was slicing 
precisely along the fabric of his jocks to free his vestal gonad. They dragged 
along his anus and tight scrotum as she dragged the remnants of them off him.

She replaced the blade beside his head. Sog was speechless, since he possessed
not the words in his head with which to compose a sentence. She had shown so 
many opportunities to wound him with the blade, and yet she did not. He began
to trust her. She bent over him, kissing his face, gently her nipples grazing
his body as she did so, and she worked her way down him, planting kisses on
his neck, is chest and shoulders, and slowly, so slowly down his stomach, 
her russet locks falling on his aching hard-on as she stroked his navel with
her tongue. He strained against his ropes to try to kiss this oh so benevolent 
creature as she moved down his body. A warmth he had never known diffused 
through him, a kind of fulfillment, the warmth of suddenly becoming a member 
of humanity and not a robot subservient to a belief system. He inhaled sharply 
as he registered the faint pressure of her teeth on the head of his painfully 
erect penis, and arched his head backward against the table as she took him 
deeply into her mouth. 

He felt cold on his knob at the back of her throat as she breathed in, and 
the light pinches she applied to his tense, wrinkled bag tickled delightfully 
as she stroked his shaft with her uvula, molars and tongue. He watched 
dreamily at her red hair bobbing up and down above his groin. She growled,
and he could feel the throaty rumble from her larynx in his cock. The heroin 
kept him from coming for a few minutes, and she noticed his building climax, 
so she withdrew his shaft from her mouth and pinched the head hard between a 
thumb and fingers to stop the impending avalache. 
 
"How was that, then?" she asked, smiling. He could only look at her, every
fibre of his body straining after his captor. "Cat got your tongue, huh? Well,
that's what usually happens. You just never got a chance to learn how to deal
with this sort of experience, it's so far out of your frames of reference
you can't even put words to it. Well... there's more yet. The lysergide 
derivative will act in in about five minutes, I adjusted the dose for your 
body mass and compensated for the pharmacological dance which is playing 
itself out in your head now between the opiate and the designer amphetamine. 
So... breathe deeply...."
 
Sog breathed deeply anyway, his brain was demanding a lot of oxygen to keep
up with the demands of processing the experience.

Popping the catches on her leather pants, she stood close to his face, and 
eased them slowly down, the belt riding over the curve of her pelvis and
down slowly till a crisp band of red curls peeked over it. She ran a hand 
down her body, from the back of her head and down her neck, over her hard
right nipple, over her navel and down her flank, and then back towards the
centre of her perfect symmetry, inside the loose boundary of her belt. Red
strands brushed through her fingertips, and her hand came to cover them, as
it drove further down. She closed her eyes as her fingertips found her wet
folds, she rummaged deliberately there for a short time. She removed her 
glistening fingers, and then dragged them across his cheeks and upper lip. 
He drank in the living scent of her, and licked at the dampness as she 
rotated her hips nearby. The leather slipped gently down her streamlined legs, 
revealing her cleft, and the pouting red lips hanging invitingly parted below.

He gazed at her primal orifice, framed between her strong thighs. She saw
him, eyes bulging, looking longingly at her dripping, anti-goddess labia.
"Come to know this, then - it is the origin of humanity. Not god, not some
alien race of genetic engineers. It is here, Sog, here, in the countless acts 
of transfer of data, where lies birthplace of evolution, and the origin of
humanity." She picked up the scalpel, shook the pants off her lower legs,  
and with remarkable alacrity climbed up on his shaking form, sitting atop  
his rigid tool which lay flat against his belly. She moved slightly along it, 
letting her wet folds embrace it, moisten it with the immortal essences of 
life.

She spoke with her teeth clamped around the handle of the blade. "Remember, 
man, that you are lust, and unto lust you shall return." She released the
blade again, letting it fall, point-first into his chest, cutting him 
slightly before falling onto the tabletop. She took a drop of his blood and
balanced it delicately on her left index finger.
 
"...ooooo....oohhhh" was about all that Sog could manage at this point. His 
eyes flicked quickly back and forth in their sockets, letting her know that 
the LSD was starting to take effect and unravel the fabric of his reality.

In a low voice she instructed, "Close your eyes, you won't need them where 
we're travelling... seek me through your other senses." Pointing her tongue 
into an arrowhead, she tongued his blood and drove herself down into his mouth 
as his eyes rolled back in their sockets and the lids closed. With her right 
hand she reached down and pressed hard behind his scrotum, making his 
quivering pole angle upwards towards her. She let her labia engulf his glans,
and guided it slightly into her wet, ribbed crevice. Sog reflexively arched 
his back off the tabletop, so she forced her calves past his sides and wedged 
her feet in behind the small of his back, driving him upwards, deep into her 
rippled sheath. She lay atop him, wrapped her arms around him, and noticed 
that his respiration had slowed rather substantially, so she breathed for him, 
forcing her breath down into his lungs. Sog was shaking as if he was cold, 
but was in fact so wound up and spun out by the bandwidth-overloading, massive 
flood of sensation, as well as the neural process reconfiguration induced by 
the LSD, that his muscles were twitching without any conscious stimulus. She
didn't rock against him or thrust, needing merely to flex the muscles of her 
pelvic floor to exert a peristaltic squeezing of his shaft and glans as his 
tool lay embedded inside her. 

Deep in Sog's brain, time had stopped. The spaghettilike tangle of associative 
links forming memories of yesterday, last week, last month, last year, indeed 
his entire persona, were unravelling, popping like pork rinds in a hot frypan.
His entire thoughtsystem temporarily dissolved into an uncountable, unknowable
superpositions of states, a neurochemical data vapour dispersed throughout
his neural net. One small pellet showed some resistance to the onslaught, 
a small nub of self-definition, "I am." Links to the concept of self ripped
from their definitional mountings, floating free for the first time since 
they were forged in his infancy, and with it so did his definition of self.

His sensory systems were spewing data into places where old processing 
paradigms had disappeared, relocated, dissolved and recondensed in new forms,
he started to process Satana's smell as a sound, interpret her growl as a  
taste, and parse her touch as an indescribable image which danced across
his visual cortex unconstrained by such parameters as intensity and focus.

His understanding of his position, strapped horizontal on the table, had
degraded, as had any tendancy to define space in terms of three dimensions and
time - his body concept had evaporated and condensed out as hazy patches of 
self referential data. Suddenly the entire universe fell into his head, and
just as quickly it fell out again, and then there was no discerning between
in or out. Schrodinger's kittens played together, pawing at each other to
discover that a paw would only connect with something when a kitten was 
looking at it.

Gradually, increasingly urgent signals emanating from some part of somewhere 
called to the dispersed once-were-Sog's-persona-condensates, whereupon they 
converged and melded into a single pooled data vapour, moving inexorably, 
with a kind of rhythmic, gentle rippling, towards a rapidly approaching 
singularity. It seemed to embody and encompass everything, and attracted all
the parts of what-used-to-be-Sog, leaving behind some strange looking, 
crystalline chunks. What were these, Sog would ask, were Sog still in any 
form capable of composing the question. These were the parasites which had 
attached themselves to Sog's personality but which would not transfer across 
the approaching singularity, since only truth survived a passage through it.

She swayed gently to and fro across his chest, growling her throaty growl,
kissing him occasionally, continuing to breathe into him, draping her long
red locks across him, and wanking him through her vaginal wall with the 
muscles of her pelvic floor. Her clitoris stood on end, she started to grind
it firmly into Sog's sparsely covered mound.

It took about two minutes of this till Sog's gonad acknowledged the call to 
transmit the DNA codes for his body to hers, and she smiled wryly as she felt 
his scrotum draw up toward the union of their bodies, and the telltale twitch 
in his legs. She noticed the tensioning of his shaft she squeezed it inside 
her, and clamped down hard upon it, thrusting slightly when the pulse of his 
orgasm started. 

The Sog persona-fragments drew nearer to the singularity, some recongealing 
in new forms, others remaining much as they were. His sensory systems were  
showering his brain with as much data as they were capable of delivering,
and these data themselves took up intricate substructures. Had the fragments
reached sufficient complexity to be able to comprehend what was approaching
the body which harboured them, perhaps they would have assigned some special
significance to the event. As it was, they raced towards the singularity
ever faster, not knowing, not caring, wanting only their access to the 
point at which they would all become unified. They fell into the singularity's 
gravity well, accelerating violently, being compressed together, faster, 
faster, faassssssssssssssssss* 

She drove a fingernail into each of his nipples as she felt his pulsing seed 
splatter warmly against her insides, and clung to him tightly, flexing her 
hamstrings as the hot wave of her own release leaked upwards into her belly.

His eyes opened, though at this point Sog's brain had not quite recompiled
its persona enough to permit him to construe as a visual image what his eyes 
were telling him. Satana was there above him, jaw clenched and brow furrowed, 
but this was not noticed by the data structure in Sog's head. Enough data had
re-seated itself at his sensory systems to permit him to remember to breathe,
and he cried out violently in the startled manner of newborn infants upon 
discovering that they indeed had a dependant connection with a dry, mostly 
dead, and somewhat cold outer universe, distinctly different to the comforting 
amnion of one's maternal belly.

Things moved quickly from there; his brain remembered how to interpret vision,
memories condensed, strangely, he felt no guilt at discovering his rapidly
shrivelling dick retreating from the belly of a woman he didn't even know. He
didn't care what time it was, another unusual thing, he seemed to remember
once being very concerned about time management and what other people thought
about him... but that was only a memory now, a relic of his unnaturally 
prolonged intellectual childhood.

Satana retrieved her legs from under his back, and wriggled forwards, up his
chest and over his face. Sog's seed spilt from her in the process, sticky
droplets of his own code on his chest. Their combined juices spilt from her
into his mouth as she rested her perineum on his chin.
 
Sog felt the overpowering urge to drive his tongue into her, to transmit his
tender gratitude into her for, by some means, she had stripped away the 
deeply ingrained preconceptions with which he had parsed the world for so 
long, and... yes, she was saying it to him now, as she cradled his head in
her hands, such obvious truths... he wondered to himself why he hadn't 
thought of them before.

Satana knew that, having faced such an upheval, Sog was very suggestible. She 
spoke to him sternly so that he could hear her even with her thighs beside his
head. "Yes, know this. All is data. You are simply an embodiment of data, and 
you evolved simply for the purpose of transferring it into others like me. 
You come from a long line of beings who transfer data sexually, but that is 
simply code for your biological embodiment."
 
He looked up at her, through her tufted hair, up over her sleek belly, beyond
the curve of her ribs and the firm projection of her breasts, to her face,
framed in her long red locks of hair, her eyes looking down into his. She 
tasted slightly sweet and acid, and, quite the opposite of where his seed 
seemed intent on going under the influence of gravity, he felt like he was 
spiralling upward into her, inhabiting her body and mind in brief flashes. 
Her voice filled his mind, its razor's edge quality slicing those remnants of
self-doubt and non-preception away from him.
 
"Your mind is what makes you different from others. It can emulate any data
process, unfortunately it can be hijacked in its process of discovery, by
long-lived, highly-evolved thought-process parasites which have evolved
to give you comforting answers to the hard questions of life. Self, mortality,
destiny, and such. Wether to kill. How to live. For what to die. You must
come to these decisions free of the influence of these diseases of thought,
for they will act on your behalf to further themselves. They care not for
their unwitting hosts, such as you have been."
 
She slowly climbed off him, and stood on the floor beside the table to which 
he was still strapped. The Sog persona was still assimilating her words as
she clambered into her leather pants and leggings, semen still dribbling from 
her. He looked at her, the absence of her warmth on his flesh feeling akin to  
an absence he had felt shortly after his birth, the feeling of having been
pulled out of a warm and ... loving? Nurturing? surround, into the cold
solitude of the human individual state. 
 
She buttoned the studs on her jacket, tossed the ampoules, syringe and oil
in a small bag. Retrieving the scalpel from the tabletop beside Sog, she
sliced the ropes which held him down, but he didn't move, draped, spent upon
the table.
 
She stood back from him, and assured herself he could continue breathing.
 
"Know freedom." she said, kissing him once on the lips before striding off
towards the hazy distance of the room. Her footsteps faded, and her form 
eventually disappeared into the background.

Sog twitched, went to turn over and fell off the table onto the wooden plank 
floor with a heavy jolt, and started coughing in the dust thereon. Slowly
he stood, and looked about, and noticed strangely that he didn't want to leave
this ordinary yet somehow sacred place where he had ... he couldn't find
the word ... regenerated? Been reborn? He noticed the outline of sweat in the
wood of the tabletop.
 
He wandered towards the distant light at the far end of the room, which seemed
to be part of a disused factory warehouse or storage depot. Eventually the
light of the afternoon fell upon his pale body, its red hues giving his skin
an unusually healthy glow. He looked into the sun as if to ask it why it was
so generously donating heat to him without demanding some form of monetary
compensation, and he caught himself in the act of thinking this, and told 
himself that money was just a human thing, that the sun cared not for this 
token system which seemed to govern men's lives. The dust crunched under
his feet as he walked to the window and looked out of it, down to the street
a few floors below. He was somewhere in an abandoned industrial precinct.

He realised that he could have been killed here and no-body would have 
noticed for months, maybe years... and that there was *so much* to learn about
the world, that death was not simply the end of one's allotted period in which
to live, and gather data, and formulate one's own opinions and make one's own
discoveries - no, premature death was a heinous robbery, theft of experiences
never had, thoughts never pondered, pleasure and companionship never shared.
 
Why had this woman come to him, of all people, as he was - a loner, no-clue
religious robot - and not only failed to rob him of his life, but enriched
it so far beyond his ability to comprehend?
 
He knew that the old answers - that some god might have willed it - did not
suffice. Perhaps, he thought, there was no reason, he was just on the lucky
recieving end of a crazy, random, not-even-for-him-specifically kidnap job,
by some very unusual people. He then realised that there were some questions
which his mind could ask of the universe for which there were not answers,
because the questions were not appropriate. The universe, after all, does not
know I am here, he pondered, as the shadow of some distant power pole fell
upon him and a gentle breeze ruffled his hair.
 
A rummage in a nearby pile of garbage rewarded him with a torn check shirt 
and a worn pair of corduroy pants, which he put on. A poor fit, of course, 
but he didn't care. It was a dangerous but fascinating world, and the clothes 
would shield him from the comments of those who thought that nakedness was a 
wicked, unnatural thing. He walked to the table and fetched the scalpel, which 
had blood on it, which he realised was his own - the blood of his own veins, 
the price of the end of his servitude to an ideology he never invited into his 
head.

He left the building, and walked out of the gravel-strewn lot via a driveway
with a fallen gate. Rain fell gently upon the him. He shivered. The cold,
which he usually hated, cut into him, and made him inhale sharply. Good to
be alive, his body hummed, and Sog's brain agreed.

"Shit happens", he shrugged, and walked uncertainly towards the glow of the 
distant train station.

FINIS






