From symons@dingoblue.net.au Wed Jun 13 13:35:44 2001
Date: Mon, 11 Jun 2001 13:17:55 +1000
From: sandra symons <symons@dingoblue.net.au>
To: predator@cat.org.au
Subject: FW: sub-edited copy


    [ Part 1, Text/PLAIN  159 lines. ]
    [ Unable to print this part. ]



----------
From: sandra symons <symons@dingoblue.net.au>
Date: Mon, 11 Jun 2001 10:13:40 +1000
To: sandra symons <symons@dingoblue.net.au>
Subject: Re: sub-edited copy

(jockey line)
A LOCAL SQUATTER ARGUES THE CASE FOR RECLAIMING EMPTY BUILDINGS

                     Making the most of available resources



Young people with little money but many personal resources
are moving into the area's empty buildings, making them
habitable and making a home. In the process, their presence
is helping keep the streets safe and maintain a sense of
community. However, they are treated like pariahs by private
corporations and public bureacracies. Here is their story,
by PREDATOR.

I spent some of the rainy, early hours of a mid-May morning moving a
reclaimed hot water service, some of my tools, and my foam mattress
into a building in Pyrmont that had been vacant since 1983.  
  Three of my housemates from the Broadway squats, recently evicted by
the Building Services division of South Sydney Council, are asleep on the
floor of their small, dusty, recently acquired rooms. Their belongings
are
piled up near them, awaiting furniture which we will scavenge off the
roadside or build from scrap timber.
  Tools? Plumbing? Fittings? Recycling? Being a squatter does not mean
that I am a vandal, a bludger or that I neglect basic hygiene. I recycle
real
estate which some person couldn't be bothered to use. It's a lot of hard
work.
  Squatting occurs on a strange economic, social and political landscape.
  There are lots of empty buildings around. Owners and agents overcharge
to a ludicrous degree for what's available and won't lower their rates.
  The owners of some empty buildings deem it too expensive to make them
comply with building safety codes. Others play a role in corporate
property speculation. Some buildings are under heritage orders and cannot
be demolished for redevelopment. Some are owned by Government-funded
charities - the Salvation Army owns an empty eight-story building in the
city.
  We've heard of owners inviting squatters into their buildings in the
hope that the squatters will trash the place so that it will have to be
demolished. When they don't trash the place, the owners kick the
squatters out.
  In a court case some years ago, the judiciary decided that a leading
property developer was under no obligation to build basic, affordable
dwellings (as opposed to more profitable luxury units) on the sites it
redevelops. As well, those who can afford to buy old places, do them up,
and sell them for
large profits. So unless you're wealthy, there's not a lot of affordable
housing on the market.
  Often, owners are scared that squatters will sue them if injury befalls
them on their premises - apparently we can afford lawyers. However, the
reality is we're much more likely to be injured living on the streets.
  Why squat in Pyrmont, in the glare of Star City's neon? Well, it's not
for the view. All I can see from the cracks between the planks on my
window are high-rise apartment blocks.
    Just over a month ago, after making a home there for well over a
year, we
were evicted from previously empty, council-owned shopfronts on Broadway.
In a bitter irony, this occurred during Homelessness Week.
  We did a lot of work on that place, fixed the electricity, installed
fire safety materials, doors, lights, sinks and the like.
  We had it certified by a electrical contractor and a building
inspector. We even had it insured. We pioneered a Caretaker Lease
agreement, which South Sydney Council mis-processed. Last I heard, it was
ratified for one of the buildings we squatted but I was out of there by
then.
  On May 16, Council officers broke in, smashed basins and sinks,
disconnected services, and removed taps. The same day, South Sydney
Council
Mayor John Fowler was reported in the Sydney Morning Herald as saying "As
a
community we need to work together, at all levels of government, and
together with charities and all other concerned residents to provide all
citizens of this country with, at the very least, food, health care and
accommodation."
  He's right, but his actions suggest he doesn't really believe it. For
some of us, squatting is a viable housing solution.
  Nonetheless, Mayor Fowler obstructed us for over a year. He called us
insulting names when we went to the Council meetings, and appeared blind
to the facts that not only were we off the streets but we were making the
streets more interesting too, like opening an art gallery in one of the
abandoned shopfronts.
  He ignored the fact that 25 people took themselves off the streets
during the Olympics, when there was no budget accommodation anywhere.
  These same premises were also squatted back in 1989. Then South Sydney
Council Mayor Vic Smith called the police to evict the squatters.
Fast forward to 2001 - where is the policy enabling vacant buildings,
public or otherwiise, to be used for the purpose of encouraging
autonomous
housing?
  I look around and wonder if there really is any community in the
APART-ments sprouting like weeds in Ultimo and Pyrmont? Does the Council
care more about the intrinsic social divisiveness of these developments
where people know less than one per cent of their immediate neighbours,
or more about keeping the luxury property developers in business?
  Radio shock-jock Alan Jones slammed the Broadway squatters on air this
time last year.  I recently heard him doing an advert for the Sydney City
Mission, exhorting people to donate to the charity to "help the homeless
start a new life".
  Jonesy hasn't been homeless of late. The last thing many of the
homeless want is dependance on institutions for their accommodation.
  Squatting's a hard life. We're not doing it for the money. We never
know when the heavies will come around and throw us out. But until that
occurs, it does offer a certain amount of autonomy - one of the main
attractions of the lifestyle.
  So what about us?
  Ronno has a part-time job at Kings Cross.  Rudi is a TAFE student. I
teach
full-time at UNSW  one month a year, and do unpaid geek things for
nonprofit internet provider cat.org.au. Duke was 'downsized' when One.Tel
collapsed. He's looking for other work. There's no women here at the
moment, they'll arrive when they feel it is safe for them to live here.
  We keep a low profile, quietly restoring this new place to some
semblance of a home - vacuuming floors, replacing missing windows,
removing intruding
vines, caulking the leaks, making toilets flush again, installing a sink,
extinguishers, smoke detectors. Pretty much what we did at Broadway.
Maybe
then we'll get to know the local shopkeepers, feel freer to come and go
during the day.
  Maybe we're unusual. I'm 30, the youngest is 20. I'm not on alcohol or
smack, I don't piss my pants or throw up on people's doorstep. Nor do my
mates.
  I don't want to make an unaccountable financial institution wealthy
with interest payments on a mortgage to pay for a shoddily constructed
shoebox. And they are, I've worked on building sites.
  I don't want to enrich corporate bosses doing work they'll (under)pay
me to do, nor fund an unaccountable, undemocratic government with income
taxes.
  So I live a pretty frugal life.  I still do useful stuff, mostly
unpaid,
for the community in which I find myself, and I do not want to be a
burden
on it. Somewhere reliable and cheap to sleep would be good. Squatting
provides that.
  People like me will become more common as the corporate screws tighten
on employment, wages and social services are cut back yet further. We're
not
the crazies we're made out to be.
  Get to know us. We're your neighbours, too.









      From: sandra symons <symons@dingoblue.net.au>
      Date: Sun, 10 Jun 2001 10:31:12 +1000
      To: <predator@cat.org.au>
      Subject: sub-edited copy


      Hi

  Herewith attached your column in sub-edited form. I have also pasted it
in below but if you can open the attachment, you will find formatted
copy. I cut the last paragraph because your piece came to such a strong
natural ending without it.  And I didn't think its deletion ruined the
main message of your column.  Hope you agree. Also can we make an
arrangement for a photograph? I am free tomorrow afternoon (I am going
into UTS to work on The Point but can make arrangements within that time
to suit you), Tuesday afternoon, any time Wednesday.  Looking forward to
hearing from you. regards, Sandy


