I'm not sure I believe in truth, she says. I couldn't be as honest as you
are. You live your life rigorously, you have principles, you do not bend
them. I exist in the cracks. My whole life is a lie, she says, I know it
sounds melodramatic but everything at some level is lying. It's a social
construct. I can't keep going if I think I have to tell the truth. I tried
it. I was honest. I honestly loved three people: you, him and Tom. It split
my heart in three. I still love you.

You're trying to convince yourself that my offer wasn't genuine. You call it
an offer, as If I were offering you something rather than asking you for
something. They say you shoud always look at the screen not at the keys when
you're typing, but I can't face the words that are ap0ppearing. Better to
look down at the letters and see the patterns, the words forming there and
disappearring back into the wswilr swirl of the alphabet.

You think the offer was not serious,. Its it worse or better if it was
serious? I will tell you whichever version of th truth you want to hear. It
was and was not serious. It was serious in the way that when you roll a dice
and you say to yourself I will take X action if the numbers are 1, 3 or 6,
and y action if the bnumbers are 2, 4 or 5. I trusted in the roll of the
dice. I'm glad it turyned out the way it did but possibly I would have been
glad if it had turned out the other. I wanted to sleep with you. To say
goodbye. But it's not always the kindest way to say goodbye. I am not always
kind, and certainly not always honest. There is only one place where I can
be rigorously honest, and the\at is here, on the page.

In fisrst year phoilosophy they always give you the conundrum: should you
always tell the truth? Then they ask you, if your wife was khiding and an
attacker came into the house to kill her asnd asked, where is your wife,
should you or should you not tell the truth? It's a simple, clear-cut case.
And then of course there is all Cretans are liars, or all liars are Cretans,
so if a moan who is a Cretan says he is a Cretan than is he a cretan or a
liar. It's all jumbled up. I don't know where to start from. I am adrift in
the universe and have no footholds. I may not have done the right thinkg in
getting married. This is the one thing that no-one will allow me to say. We
are not allowed to express doubt, especially not to our beloveds.

I love you because you know about these cracks. You have a scientific
evolutionary theory for most things that happen, which is well and good. I
have no such theory. Every explanation presented brings to mind a but. But.
What about this and this. I am religious. Perhaps I wasn't honest enough
with you about that. There are narratives beneath our narratives, and
narratives below that even that we can't see. Now I soulnd as mad as you. Do
you really think the world is going to end? They have been saying that for
ventruries, millenia..

I wanted my memories back. When the bus rides past the Powerhouse I think of
a steaming afternoon, and grilled eggplant in the evening, and angry paris,
and a joint I roled and put in my purse and tdidn't smoke, and chickpea
curry (you can tell how attached I am to my food), and a beautiful naked
boy,, white mus cles gelaming like marble, green veins threaded through, and
a red cock, and the way you caught me after I rwriggled through that tiny
space to a drop down below into the dark. I have never been so frightened in
my life. I'm not a law-breaker, only of the laws of the heart, of social
niceties, of the laws that really mater. I am terrified of ending up in
jail. All through my trip to Europe I talked about nothing but our excursion
to the powerhouse. Entracnced. It hurt Paris beyond belief. He had always
wantined to go there, and I had never even heard him when he said he wanted
to go. I was deaf to him for three years, shutting him out. I didn't know he
was depressed, I couldn't concentrate on him.

You remind me of my father. You look like him. Ibn stoned moments I
fantasise about fucking you and then see my father's face flash up at me
atop your body, and shudder in revolt. You calm and reassure me, playing the
role my father always played in the family melodrama. My mother created
hysteria, my father calmed it down. Took my side, assured me that there was
a world of rationatlity and truth, that these wild emotions were not the
whole picture. I've been searching for that in various people throughtout my
life, I realise. Looking for fathers, looking for calm men who can hold the
storm. I'm not married to such a man. Aaron is a storm. I love it but it's
exhausting.

All of us have storms, of course, you have yours. You just didn't inflict
them on me. You're right, I couldn't have coped. I was going mad in my own
way too. I felt so much pain and regret, as if I never should have started
my relationship with Aaron. I hadn't finished things with you, you were
still there, in my mind the whole time. I pushied you right to the back as
if that would help. I couldn't stand to face what I `d done, the pain I
caused. Because I did love you, I still love you. You are one of the most
amazing people I had ever met. What I wanted on Tuesday night was not just
an evolutionary biological impulse, but to go back to a place we can't go
back to. It hurts to know that. You opended my mind and changed my life and
set me free (to make more mistakes, but that's my own fault!). You have an
amazing mind and a forgiving nature. You never attack (again, just like my
father).

My mother referred to you at lunch on Friday. She was talking about how all
the people us kids have brought home how they are all nice respectable
middle-class people, `except you did bring home that strange man that time'.
I wasn't sure if she was talking about Patrick, the psychotic boyfriend, or
you. I didn't like to aks. I think she conflates the two of you. The
conversation moved on, I didn't protest or defend you (if it was you). But
if it was you, I thought to my mother, in my head: how can you not see how
like Daddy he is? The same blond hair, the same red beard. In idle moments I
wonder if you are actually my pbrother it's feasible, my father could have
had an affair a few years before I was born, you have the same quick clever
mind, the same mathematical and scientific genius (I do think you are a
genius even if you are mad) and the same appreciation of music. The sound of
taboos shattering is deafening! I think ithis is part of the reason for my
withdrawal from you, I lost sexual interest because the incest fantasy was
playing out in my mind. Nothing to do with anything you've done or who you
are, just my storyteller's paranoid imagination playing me up. I couldn't
keep fucking you and seeing my father's face. It's tempting to make a crack
here, I `m a bad girl but not that bad etc. It was part of the attraction as
well, I think.

So I'm a human being. Inconsistent, devious, a liar, unfaithful, inconstant
and all the rest. There are lies I have to live to make life worth living. I
don't believe in working for money but it's part of the human experience and
I can' stand bing cut off from that. I don''t believe in marriage and I'm
not even sure if I believe in the relationship I'm having, but if we hadn't
got married I couldn't have worked and believe you me, after spending six
months fighting with Aaron about money it's not something I ever want to go
through again. Marriage is something we're trying because it might just make
this relationship work but my heart is full of doubts. I can't talk about
this to anyone, I can't admit to anyone that I think I've made a mistake.
But at the same time I know that doubt is part of any undertaking and you
can't let it stop you from trying things.

