File: stucco.txt
Cont: Commentry on the STUCCO LAN
Auth: predator@cat.org.au

Philosophy: This is essentially an infrastructure project, so installation
costs should be considered to be spread out over the operating lifespan of
the building. STUCCO need only care about provision of a reliable network
linkage in each dorm, and let the students decide for themselves how they
wish to use it, as appears to have been done for the phone system.


Thoughts: Since cat.org.au is not a business and has no vested interest in
STUCCO installing a LAN (local area network, a bunch of data wires
connecting a number of proximal places), we can pop out the following
observations about the installed 'net. This is a technology developed in
part by the US military, and the technology was built to enable specific
relationships to occur, and has the potential to become a possibly
inferior substitute for the sorts of social interactions which are
benefits intrinsic to living in a community like STUCCO, if it is
permitted to do so. I observe that TV already competes successfully with
conversation for time and attention of residents, and telephones
(naturally) momentarily monopolise it. This is something which should be
thought about prior to the decision to install a LAN at STUCCO. However it
also has to potential to be useful. Some LAN design consideration should
be made for residents who, for whatever reason, don't own, and perhaps
don't want to own, a personal computer.

Used computer infrastructure contributes to pollution and its initial
manufacture is also very polluting. Hence there's some additional 
motivations to using second-hand equipment for parts of the LAN; recycling
perfectly adequate hardware, deemed obsolete by the business community,
keeps good resources out of landfill.

------------That said!-----------------------------

Things required for the STUCCO LAN:

1) Creation of an external aDSL connection to the internet sufficient for
the needs of the approx 40 students in the premises. This will originate
either with the University of Sydney or a commercial aDSL provider. It is
likely that an unlimited download account is required; terms of service
should be carefully considered lest large bills (for large downloads)
appear. This connection will need an existing conventional phone
connection - which can continue to be used for its current purposes; each
existing phone, 56k modem or fax machine on that line will need to be
protected from DSL signals with a DSL filter. These can be acquired for
about $20. It will also require a DSL modem, see section 4).

2) Acquisition, installation and testing of data cabling. Installation is
anticipated to be performed partly by STUCCO members, testing to be done
largely by predator@cat.org.au 

Cabling will need to be routed in UPVC sheathing for external runs.
Internal and external runs will be mounted with conventional galvanised
mounting hardware, to floor joists, etc.

The installed cabling is _required_ to support gigabit/second ethernet
transfers; this transfer speed is probably not required now, but
anticipates future requirements and is adequate for modern hardware at 100
megabit/second. It has the advantage of compatability with older 10
megabit/second ethernet hardware. It is also faster, more reliable, better
supported, more secure than common 2.4GHz wireless hardware. <predator>
has located a supplier of 500m rolls of gigabit-capable Cat5e ethernet
cabling, one roll will cost approximately $105 and is anticipated to be
sufficient to supply the building.

All of these kinds of ethernet hardware standards move data several times
faster than the best available DSL services; the ethernet cabling will
support fast transfers of data from the main STUCCO server to student
users, and also student-to-student transfers within the building,
regardless of the quality of the connection to the outside world.

The routing of the cabling will reflect the likely distribution of the
users at the premises in study time (that is, access will be localised at
points close to each cluster of bedrooms). This means that one socket will
be installed near the bedroom doors at levels two and three; At this point
a small hub or switch can be installed to feed each room. This will
eliminate duplicated cabling runs, cutting the installation costs
significantly. Small client hubs are cheaply available and can be
connected to the main links as required by students.

The cables will terminate in RJ45 plugs at the server end and wall-mounted
RJ45 sockets at the bedroom end. Optionally, a small (8 port) hub can act
as the termination (via an RJ45 jack)

3) Acquisition, installation and testing of a linux-based DSL router which
will perform:

-DHCP allocation of non-routable IP numbers to client machines on the LAN
-NAT (network address translation)
-Firewalling restricting access to ports 80 (http) and 23 (ssh)
-SQUID proxy services, so the same content is not downloaded multiple times
-Shared harddisk services

It is expected that the machine which will perform these tasks will be a
used Pentium-II or Pentium-III running a router-centric distribution of
Linux (for example, Mitel networks SME-server, a RedHat derivative).

Advantages are:  
-no operating system licensing costs (no payments to Microsoft)
-total control of the system.  
-windows, mac and linux systems talk to it
-able to be remotely administered if needs be
-generic parts, so cheap to  replace / upgrade  if  destroyed / deemed
 obsolete 
-memory and harddisk space can be cheaply added as desired.

4) Acquisition of an ethernet-configured (not USB), bridge-mode DSL modem
capable of 1.5Mbit/sec download. This may not actually be required
(256kbit/sec download can be trialled initially) but can be considered to
anticipate future requirements.

5) Acquisition of a UTP switch with at least 12 ports to supply one
cable feed to each individual cluster of bedrooms (there are eight of
these).

6) Acquisition of at least eight 8-port hubs, one to split each feed from
the server into individual feeds to each room requiring it in a
unit. These can be had for under $20 each, or less second-hand. They need
a permanent connection to a power point. 




---------
<predator>





