
Hi joss dude. Note the ancient date of the top post: I don't know if I
ever sent this to you (i was root@203.57.122.4), but maybe I did. If you
did and were bored of it two years ago, go to the section below the second
horizontal line 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
From predator@cat.org.au Wed Sep 12 16:16:31 2001
Date: Wed, 12 Sep 2001 16:14:48 +1000 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: root@203.57.122.4
Subject: desire and suffering

Hmmm... something's been bugging me about this postulate 

"that the cause of all suffering is desire."

I couldn't quite put the finger on it last night.

If you discovered you were feeling blagged (tired, irritable, fevered,
achey, etc etc... blagged is a scientific term with a very short history,
you understand 8-)  ), say, as a result of being infected by an
opportunistic pathogen which you happened to unintentionally inhale,
you'd be suffering its unpleasant effects, but you never desired them in
the first place and regardless of wether or not you subsequently wanted to
be free of them.

Your body is deliberately configured to acquire oxygen from air, not
viruses.

The blagged-out feeling you get from being sick is not the same as the
yechhy feeling you get from desiring that the blagged-out feeling goes
away, I think.

Claiming that the suffering comes about as a result of the desire to be
free of suffering strikes me as circular - it presupposes what it tries to
prove. 

You'd still feel physically shitty if you had the flu, regardless of
wether or toy not desired it in the first place or desired freedom from
the influence of the flu. The virus doesn't care what you think of it when
it infects you, nor does it care what you think of it while you're feeling
bad subsequent to its attack. It doesn't desire anything per se, either.
It isn't conscious or even alive. Who came up with this idea anyway?

Then again I might have totally missed the entire point of the comment. In
which case, if you feel inclined, please fill me in sometime.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tue, 23 Sept 2003

Ha, got it! This has been stuck in my craw for about two years and I have
stumbed over a plausible answer, via p267-268 of Steven Pinker's
book, The Blank Slate. It always pays to read wisely ;) 

It looks like some of the things we desire can bring us suffering as well
(no surprise there: today I want to read the newspaper, tomorrow I whinge
about having to throw it away). In such a case, the desire to read the
paper would be proximate cause of suffering the nuisance of discarding it.

I imagine there are some sufferings which aren't a result of getting or
losing, or failing to experience something you desired. 

If you don't catch influenza, you don't suffer, wether you desired to get
the 'flu or not, and regardless of your desire to stay healthy, which
directly causes you no suffering at all.  

Some desires cause no suffering (chocolate in moderation?). Some suffering
had no desire to cause it (arthritis?).... and any suffering caused by a
desire to avoid any suffering caused in advance by something else is a
catagorization error born of recursion, whatddya reckon?

Blah, blah... I think I've sussed out why it stuck in my craw: I fucked up
trying to interpret your statement - I wished to know the suffering and
desire's ultimate causes, not their proximate ones (you said ALL
suffering!)

Brevity was never my strong suit, but I'll cuttin' to the chase:

It appears that, the capacity to experience suffering, and the capacity to
experience desire, both have similar evolutionary origins, but each
capacity doesn't cause the other, even though each kind of experience 
might be provoked by, or involve, the same things.


Directly ripping from the pages of The Blank Slate:

Pinker:
"Donald Symons has argued that we have genetic conflict to thank for the
fact that we have feelings towards other people at all. Consciousness is a
manifestation of the neural computations necessary to figure out how to
get the rare and unpredictable things we need. We feel hunger, savour
food, have a palate for countless fascinating tastes because food was hard
to get during most of our evolutionary history. We don't normally feel
longing, delight or fascination regarding oxygen, even though it is
crucial for survival, because it was never hard to obtain. We just
breathe.

The same may be true of conflicts over kin, mates and friends. I mentioned
that if a couple were guaranteed to be faithful, to favour each other over
their kin, and to die at the same time, their genetic interests would be
identical, wrapped up in their common children. One can even imagine a
species in which every couple was marooned on an island for life and their
offspring dispersed at maturity, never to return. Since the genetic
interests of the two mates are identical, one might at first think that
evolution would endow them blissful perfection of sexual, romantic, and
companionate love.

But, Symons argues, nothing of the sort would happen. The relation between
the mates would evolve to be like the relation among the cells of a single
body, whose genetic interests are also identical. Heart cells and lung
cells don't have to fall in love to get along in perfect harmony. Likewise,
the couples in this species would only have sex for the purpose of
procreation (why waste energy?) and sex would bring no more pleasure than
the rest of reproductive physiology such as the release of hormones or the
formation of the gametes.

Quoting Symons:
"There would be no falling in love, because there would be no alternative
mates to choose among, and falling in love would be a huge waste. You
would literally love your mate as yourself, but that's the point: you
don't really love yourself, except metaphorically; you ARE yourself. The
two of you would be, as far as evolution is concerned, one flesh, and your
relationship would be governed by mindless physiology.... You might feel
pain if you observed your mate cut herself, but all the feelings we have
about our mates that make a relationship so wonderful when it is working
(and so painful when it is not) would never evolve. Even if a species had
them when they took up this way of life, they would be selected out as
surely as the eyes of a cave-dwelling fish are selected out, because they
would be all cost and no benefit."

{excerpted from Symons, D: Evolution of Human Sexuality, Oxford university
press, 1979 p271)

Pinker again:
"The same is true for our emotions toward family and friends: the richness
and intensity of the feelings in our minds are proof of the preciousness
and fragility of those bonds in life. In short, without the possibility of
suffering, what we would have is not harmonious bliss, but rather, no
consciousness at all."


---------------------------------------------------------------------------


Be well.


<predator>
 23092003

