File: swalker2.txt
Date : April 5, 2002
Cont: assessment of additional SCSI RAID device failures

Background: 
-----------

An assessment of common-mode, mains propagated electrical noise was made
at South-Walker in early October, 2001. Remediation of this situation
required that the vulnerable infrastructure be moved from one circuit
(CB14) to another without any detectable noise (CB13). Subsequent
performance was reasonably reliable until late March 2002, when two
mirrored drives failed simultaneously, necessitating expensive downtime,
rebuilding of the array and replacement of two drives.

This failure is correlated with re-installation and activation of a
therapeutic laser system on the floor above on the same day as the
failure. Our working hypothesis is that this installation is on the same
mains circuit as the server and is the source of the line noise rendering
the server inoperative.


Observations:
-------------
In the last assessment, a recommendation was made (See line 259 of
swalker.txt) that

"As soon as possible, additional noise filtering between the mains and
UPS ... should be installed.... as a pre-emptive measure."

Surge suppression equipment is usually effective against these sorts of
failures in sensitive high-end equipment. Also, due to its availability
for much less than $100 per installed item, it represents very cheap
insurance, and also easily replaced. However, no such system was
installed.

Investigations were made concerning presence of line noise on the system.
On the day, the active mains feed was clean, though noise was detected
on the neutral line, to approximately 5 volts with respect to earth. The
origin of this noise is not known, and although this noise is not thought
to be significant, it could become significant if it increases and no
noise suppression is installed.

The laser surgery suite was not being used on the day. An investigation
was made concerning the devices on the premises, and their relationship to
the mains feeds which drive the South Walker server.

Of several devices available, we were able to test-fire a Cool-Glide
Erbium laser while monitoring its mains supply voltage with the CRO in
real time. This device was discharged at 160J/cm^2 (standard operational
setting) and gave no indication of differential-mode or common-mode noise.
There are other devices in the premises (in particular, a dual-mode rig
fed by 3-phase power) which may be responsible for the noise source,
however, on the day we had neither permission, nor knowledge of how to
activate these systems.

(Note: this test was performed _after_ the suppressor was installed in the
South Walker server room!)

It is noteworthy that these lasers have had their mains supply modified -
the plugs installed on supply cables for some of these devices are not
adequately rated to carry the current (20A) required by the device. A
sub-hypothesis concerning line noise emission on these devices is : when
the laser devices are imported into this country, their power supply stage
(suitable for say, American or European mains voltage) is modified for
compatability with the Australian mains, and in the process the noise
suppression typically supplied with these devices is removed or rendered
inoperative. This probably warrants further investigation at the importer
or manufacturer's level.

Action: 
------- 

At this stage, the server continues to operate on the same circuit as was
responsible for carrying line noise which we believe led to the crash in
late March. However, there is now, installed between the mains outlet and
the server UPS, a HPM power board incorporating voltage surge
supppression, and radio-frequency noise filtering.

The voltage suppression is based on a device called a metal oxide varistor
(MOV) which is like a normal resistor except its resistance decreases
dramatically as voltage increases beyond levels typical to mains. The MOV
will hence become conductive during a spike and route voltage-spike energy
to the earth rail, preventing this energy from being transmitted to the
components downstream from it.

The RFI suppression is a separate, tuned, band-pass LC circuit, configured
to let 50Hz signals (mains) through unattenuated, though to suppress
frequencies beyond or below this.

The suppressor was installed and tested in-situ with a CRO. The
approximately 5 volts peak-to-peak common-mode (Neutral-to-earth) noise on
the mains on the unprotected side of the device was attenuated to less
than half a volt before being fed to the UPS and the server. 

The suppression device incorporates an indicator light which should be
observed periodically. If the indicator light goes out, the unit has
absorbed a significant spike and should be replaced with an equivalent
because its ability to suppress further spikes is reduced.



Martin Richards postulates, quite reasonably in my opinion, that the SCSI
RAID cage itself also comes under suspicion, because it may also have
taken damage from the same RFI/surge interference as is expected to be
responsible for the repeated failure of drives mounted within it, and may
need replacement.



<predator@cat.org.au>

