From dsankt@hotmail.com Wed Aug  7 13:50:06 2002
Date: Wed, 07 Aug 2002 12:21:41 +1000
From: dsankter qed <dsankt@hotmail.com>
Reply-To: cave_clan@yahoogroups.com
To: frozen_peas_r_yummy@hotmail.com, captaincadaver_1@hotmail.com,
     kinniku_man@phantomemail.com, freakandlegend@hotmail.com,
     jenchau@hotmail.com, magga99@hotmail.com, menoetes@hotmail.com,
     peter_kowald@hotmail.com
Subject: (C/C) Fwd: Technotopia and the Death of Nature

Thought some of you might find this interesting (especially the sydney geeks 
:P). If it does there is a book called 'The age of spiritual machines' you 
might also enjoy...


Technotopia and the Death of Nature
by James John Bell

There is something missing from the discussion of the technologic
singularity, says James Bell: the true cost of progress will mean the
unprecedented decline of the planet's inhabitants -- an ever-increasing
rate of global extinction, some warn.

There is no question that technological growth trends in science and
industry are increasing exponentially. There is, however, a growing
debate about what this runaway acceleration of ingenuity may bring. A number 
of respected scientists and futurists now are predicting that technological 
progress is driving the world toward a "Singularity" -- a point at which 
technology and nature will have become one. At this juncture, the world as 
we have known it will have gone extinct and new definitions of "life," 
"nature" and "human" will take hold.

"We are on the edge of change comparable to the rise of human life on
Earth," San Diego University Professor of Computer Science Vernor Vinge
first warned the scientific community in 1993. "Within 30 years, we will 
have the technological means to create superhuman intelligence. Shortly 
after, the human era will end."

Some scientists and philosophers have theorized that the very purpose of 
life is to bring about the Singularity. While leading technology
industries have been aware of the Singularity concept for some time, there 
are concerns that, if the public understood the full ramifications of the 
Singularity, they would be reluctant to accept many of the new and untested 
technologies such as genetically engineered foods, nano-technology and 
robotics.

Machine Evolution
A number of books on the coming Singularity are in the works and will
soon appear. In 2003, the sequel to the blockbuster film The Matrix will 
delve into the philosophy and origins of Earth's machine-controlled future. 
Matrix cast members were required to read Wired editor Kevin Kelly's 1994 
book Out of Control: The Rise of Neo-biological Civilization. Page one 
reads, "The realm of the born - all that is nature -- and the realm of the 
made - all that is humanly constructed -- are becoming one."

Meanwhile, Warner Brothers has embarked on the most expensive film of
all time -- a $180 million sequel called Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines. 
The film is due out in 2003; a good decade before actual machine evolution 
is predicted to accelerate "out of control," plunging human civilization 
towards the Singularity.

Central to the workings of the Singularity are a number of "laws" -- one of 
which is known as Moore's Law. Intel Corp. cofounder Gordon E. Moore noted 
that the number of transistors that could fit on a single computer chip had 
doubled every year for six years from the beginnings of integrated circuits 
in 1959. Moore predicted that the trend would continue, and it has -- 
although the doubling rate was later adjusted to an 18-month cycle.

Today, millions of circuits are found on a single miniscule computer
chip and technological "progress" is accelerating at an exponential rather 
than a linear growth rate.

Stewart Brand, in his book The Clock of the Long Now, discusses another
law -- Monsanto's Law -- which states that the ability to identify and
use genetic information doubles every 12 to 24 months. This exponential
growth in biological knowledge is transforming agriculture, nutrition and 
healthcare in the emerging life-sciences industry.

In 2005, IBM plans to introduce "Blue Gene," a computer that can perform one 
million-billion calculations-per-second -- about 1/20th the power of the 
human brain. This computer could transmit the entire contents of the Library 
of Congress in less than two seconds. According to Moore's Law, computer 
hardware will surpass human brainpower in the first decade of this century. 
Software that emulates the human mind -- "artificial intelligence" -- may 
take a few more years to evolve.

Reaching Infinity
The human population also is experiencing tremendous exponential
population growth. Dan Eder, a scientist at the Boeing Artificial 
Intelligence Center, notes that "human population growth over the past 
10,000 years has been following a hyperbolic growth trend ... with the 
asymptote [or the point of near-infinite increase] located in the year 2035 
AD." An infinite number of humans is, of course, impossible. Scientists 
predict our numbers will hover around 9 billion by mid-century.

Eder points out that the predicted rise of artificial intelligence
coincides with the asymptote of human population growth. He speculates that 
artificial life could begin to multiply exponentially once biological life 
has met its finite limits.

Scientists are debating not so much if it will happen, but what
discovery will set off a series of Earth-altering technologic events. They 
suggest that advancements in the fields of nanotechnology or the discovery 
of artificial intelligence could usher in the Singularity.

Technologic Globalization
Physicists, mathematicians and scientists like Vernor Vinge and Ray
Kurzweil have identified through their accelerated technological change 
theories the likely boundaries of the Singularity and have predicted with 
confidence the effects leading up to it over the next couple of decades.

The majority of people closest to these theories and laws -- the tech
sector -- can hardly wait for the Singularity to arrive. The true
believers call themselves "extropians," "post-humans" and "transhumanists" 
and are actively organizing not just to bring the Singularity about, but to 
counter what they call "techno-phobes" and "neo-luddites" -- critics like 
Greenpeace, Earth First! and the Rainforest Action Network.

The Progress Action Coalition (Pro-Act), which was formed in June 2001,
fantasizes about "the dream of true artificial intelligence... adding a
new richness to the human landscape never before known." The Pro-Act website

features several sections where the strategies and tactics of
environmental groups and foundations are targeted for "countering."

Pro-Act, AgBioworld, Biotechnology Progress, Foresight Institute, the
Progress Freedom Foundation and other industry groups that desire
accelerated scientific progress acknowledge that the greatest threat to
technologic progress comes not just from environmental groups, but from
a small faction of the scientific community -- where one voice stands out.

The Warning
In April 2000, a wrench was thrown into the arrival of the Singularity
by an unlikely source -- Sun Microsystems' Chief Scientist Bill Joy. Joy 
co-founded Sun Microsystems, helped create the Unix computer operating 
system and developed the Java and Jini software systems -- systems that 
helped give the Internet "life."

In a now-infamous cover story in Wired magazine, "Why the Future Doesn't 
Need Us," Joy warned of the dangers posed by developments in genetics, 
nanotechnology and robotics. Joy's warning of the impacts of exponential 
technologic progress run amok gave new credence to the coming Singularity. 
Unless things change, Joy predicted, "We could be the last generation of 
humans." Joy has warned that "knowledge alone will enable mass destruction" 
and termed this phenomenon "knowledge-enabled mass destruction" (KMD).

The Times of London compared Joy's statement to Einstein's 1939 letter
to President Roosevelt, which warned of the dangers of the nuclear bomb.

The technologies of the 20th century gave rise to nuclear, biological
and chemical (NBC) technologies that, while powerful, require access to vast 
amounts of raw (and often rare) materials, technical information and 
large-scale industries. The 21st century technologies of genetics,
nanotechnology and robotics (GNR) however, will require neither large
facilities nor rare raw materials.

The threat posed by GNR technologies becomes further amplified by the
fact that some of these new technologies have been designed to be able to 
"replicate" -- i.e., they can build new versions of themselves. Nuclear 
bombs did not sprout more bombs and toxic spills did not grow more spills. 
If the new self-replicating GNR technologies are released into the 
environment, they could be nearly impossible to recall or control.

Globalization and Singularity
Joy understands that the greatest dangers we face ultimately stem from a 
world where global corporations dominate -- a future where much of the world 
has no voice in how the world is run. The 21st century GNR technologies, he 
writes, "are being developed almost exclusively by corporate enterprises. We 
are aggressively pursuing the promises of these new technologies within the 
now-unchallenged system of global capitalism and its manifold financial 
incentives and competitive pressures."

Joy believes that the system of global capitalism, combined with our
current rate of progress, gives the human race a 30 to 50 percent chance of 
going extinct around the time the Singularity happens. "Not only are these 
estimates not encouraging," he adds, "but they do not include the 
probability of many horrid outcomes that lie short of extinction."

Nobel Prize-winning atmospheric chemist Paul Crutzen contends that if
chemists earlier in the last century had decided to use bromine instead
of chlorine to produce commercial coolants (a mere quirk of chemistry), the 
ozone hole over Antarctica would have been far larger, would have lasted all 
year and would have severely affected life on Earth. "Avoiding that was just 
luck," stated Crutzen.

It is very likely that scientists and global corporations will miss key
developments (or, worse, actively avoid discussion of them). A whole
generation of biologists has left the field for the biotech and nanotech 
labs. As biologist Craig Holdredge, who has followed biotech since its early 
beginnings in the 1970s, warns: The science of "biology is losing its 
connection with nature."

Yet there is something missing from this discussion of the technologic
singularity. The true cost of technologic progress and the Singularity
will mean the unprecedented decline of the planet's inhabitants -- an
ever-increasing rate of global extinction.

The World Conservation Union (IUCN), the International Botanical
Congress and a majority of the world's biologists believe that a global 
"mass extinction" already is underway. As a direct result of human activity 
(resource extraction, industrial agriculture, the introduction of non-native 
animals and population growth), up to one-fifth of all living species -- 
mostly in the tropics -- are expected to disappear within 30 years. "The 
speed at which species are being lost is much faster than any we've seen in 
the past -- including those related to meteor collisions," University of 
Tennessee biodiversity expert Daniel Simberloff told the Washington Post.

A 1998 Harris poll of the 5,000 members of the American Institute of 
Biological Sciences found 70 percent believed that what has been termed
"The Sixth Extinction" is now underway. A simultaneous Harris poll found 
that 60 percent of the public were totally unaware of the impending 
biological collapse.

At the same time that nature's ancient biological creation is on the
decline, artificial laboratory-created bio-tech life forms --
genetically modified tomatoes, genetically engineered salmon, cloned sheep 
-- are on the rise. Already more than 60 percent of food in US grocery 
stores contain genetically engineered ingredients -- and that percentage is 
rising.

Nature and technology are not just evolving: They are competing and
combining with one another. Ultimately there could be only one winner.


_________________________________________________________________
Join the world^Òs largest e-mail service with MSN Hotmail. 
http://www.hotmail.com


------------------------ Yahoo! Groups Sponsor ---------------------~-->
Free $5 Love Reading
Risk Free!
http://us.click.yahoo.com/09Lw8C/PfREAA/Ey.GAA/ktVolB/TM
---------------------------------------------------------------------~->

 

Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/ 


