From lcrowell@swcp.com Fri Mar 15 03:21:37 2002
Date: Wed, 13 Mar 2002 19:21:55 -0700
From: Lawrence B. Crowell <lcrowell@swcp.com>
Reply-To: selfish_genes@yahoogroups.com
To: selfish_genes@yahoogroups.com
Subject: [selfish_genes] stupid genes


I am only going to post something below that I wrote a while back, and sent
to Jay when he announced the selfish gene list.  I will have to get back to
the rest of the posts.  Right now I am afflicted with HACK, COUGH, and
convulsive sneezing that has caused huge nose bleeds.  In fact that last
thing is the biggest problem, and it is weird and annoying.  SNEEZE!!

BTW, there is an article in the "Atlantic Monthly" that might be of
interest to people concerned about these topics.  It discusses the die-off
of native Americans in the wake of 1492.

L. C.

Some very basic aspects of human behavior are most readily seen in the
nature of religions.  The idea that there exists a personal Creator who is
intimately concerned about us is an example of an anthrotype.  I tend to
think that the evolution of language may have involved our capacity to tell
stories about the world according to anthrotypes as totems and spirits.  In
my conjecture that the human brain is a cobbled together neural patchwork,
the way we think and behave is not always rational.  The expectation that
there even "should be" a compassionate God that is concerned about us is
our projection of an anthrotype onto the world.

This psychology occurs in how we behave socially and politically.  If a
problem occurs in the world it is easiest to mobilize people if a human
face with different features or color, or that speaks a different language,
believes another religion or lives under another flag is used as the poster
board for all our problems.  Contrast the political response to the WTC
bombing of 9/11 and the response to AIDS.  The events of 9/11 resulted in
3500 deaths, and AIDS has killed 27 million worldwide and 70 thousand in
the US.  With 9/11 the response was as immediate and dramatic as the terror
act itself.  Bush has committed $40billion to the war on terrorism.  In
contrast the initial response of the Reagan Administration to AIDS was to
shrug it off as "gay cancer."  Once it was found to be due to a pathogen it
was then popular to consider this as "God's judgement on gays."  It was
only once the dead bodies started to get stacked up too high that federal
action ramped up.  Of course at this point the lack of action had brought
the disease everywhere.  It examplified the three phases in human response
to these types of problems: denial, blame and then reluctant action.  This
scenario continues to be played out in Africa, where most governments do
not acknowledge the existence of AIDS, and the S. African president Umbeki
has made it policy that AIDS is not caused by HIV.  This is in spite of the
fact Africans are starting to die like flies.  Today the worldwide
financial committment to HIV/AIDS is a fraction of that invested in the war
on terrorism.   Osama bin Ladin has a human face that we respond to, while
HIV is an invisible virus that does not have the sort of emotive capacity.

It is all too much evidence of Crowell's rule #57: politics and political
thinking are the playground for people with bad brains.  

It is interesting to notice that social and political responses to
pandemics has always been at first one of denial, then one of blame, and
once things get bad those with their hands on the wheel of power finally
get around to honestly trying to deal with it.  This was seen with the
spread of bubonic plague during the years of 1348-51.  In the first year it
was seen as just an anomoly, and attributed to the conjunction of Mars and
Jupiter.  The initial response was a grand shrug, a bit like the SuperTramp
album "Crisis? What Crisis?"  Later the blame game began and it was
popularly assumed that Jews were poisoning wells.  There was a rampant
upsurge in pograms, but this did nothing to stem the plague.  Eventually
people, as the population collapse of Europe approached half, came to the
mind that the disease was due to bad air (BTW the term malaria means "bad
air") and that if things were cleaned up so bad odors were gone that the
disease would go away.  While they had the wrong etiology, they did have a
causal idea of things and this did have the effect of reducing rat
populations which with fleas were the animal vector for this.

I think the same social psychology is at work with regards to the matters
of global envirnomental destruction and resourse depletion.  Colin Campbell
has indicated that we are at the maximum production output on oil and that
90% of all oil that exists has been accounted for.  In effect we may be at
or near the ultimate socio-economic height that we will ever attain.  Also
about .5% of the planetary biological throughput is lost every year.  We
are rapidly stripping the biosphere down.  Also in the last 5 years fresh
water supplies have failed to keep up with demand.  I could go on about
this for some time.  It takes no great genius to see that resource
depletion and an impending ecospasm or collapse of the biosphere's capacity
to sustain us will have a future impact of unprecidented magnitude.

The response to these issues has been again one of denial, and denial that
involves a range of supression.  Rightwinged "think tanks" have sprouted up
to counter any sort of scientific concern over these matters, and as they
are tied to the business world the "conclusions" of these groups are highly
amplified.  It frankly is similar to the Tobacco Institue's claims against
health issues with tobacco use.  

Again the difficulty here is that this problem does not involve a human
face.  So while the implications of our current situation are frankly
horrid and stark, it does not mobilize people in the way that a bin Ladin
does.  It also needs to be remarked that the "Green response" to these
issues is to blame people and to consider these problems as due to an "evil
cabal" of capitalists.  The Green Party has only really gotten to the blame
phase in this, but frankly is seriously lacking in any intellectual
capacity to realistically address these matters.

If you have ever had children one thing that is quite common in the face of
some troubling episode is their comment, "that is not fair."  There is an
implicit psychological assumption that the world is fair and that this
fairness is something that extends automatically to them.  This fairness is
seen in the anthropomorphic extension of ourselves into the world or into a
supernatural world.  In fact Thomas Jefferson wrote, "We hold these truths
to be self-evident, that all men are Created equal."  We have an implicit
assumption that there does exist some ultimate justice behind the ordering
of the world.  

This assumption is tightly held on to in spite of a preponderance of
evidence against this idea.  A couple of months ago an asteroid came rather
alarmingly close to the Earth.  Given a tiny variation in the initial
conditions of planetary orbits this sucker could have impacted Earth and
seriously cleaned our clocks out.  There are those who might see divine
providence in this, but I see Newtonian mechanics and chaos theory.  It
just comes down to dynamics and plumb luck.  The dinosaurs were of course
not so lucky.  

So as we careen towards global ecospasm and resource depletion I tend to
see that we really should not be so surprised.  Our existence in this world
is entirely by evolutionary happenstance, the world does not exist for us
(in spite of what are prejudices are to the contrary), and that our
responses to things are most often not really rational as we are the
product of a particular evolutionary history involved with specific
responses then.  We did not evolve to become "rational beings," but evolved
step by step with each generation in response to environmental selection
and behavioral responses to it.  That our current response to matters as
bio-depletion and climatic perturbation is a big shrug should come as no
surprise, it is in keeping with our anscestors of the 14th century.  This
is not a matter of a political ideology or a socio-economic structure as a
causal source, but ultimately just really who and what we are.  

There is also the troubling prospect that by the time we get through the
denial and blame phase on these problems that it may be too late to do
anything in order to avoid political and socio-economic collapse in the
2050 time frame and subsequent human population collapse.  It also might be
that we are now at the height of what humanity will ever achieve.  If such
a collapse occurs the remnant human population will be forced to live in a
world seriously depleted.  It may from then on be impossible to ever
rebuild any sort of civilization at all comparable to the modern world.

As I see it, if John Wheeler is right in his maybe overly metaphysical
ideas about us being the cosmos becoming conscious of itself, then we had
better get cracking on getting the quantum gravity and cosmology problem
solved.  This would be preferable if some experimental data comes it to
support the theory.  The problem just may be that we do not have that much
time left: 25 years and 50 at most.  This means that I hope Lee Smolin's
"optimism" on this turns to fruition.

Lawrence B. Crowell


For every apparent change in place occurs on account of the movement either
of the thing seen or of the spectator, or on account of the necessarily
unequal movement of both.  For no movement is perceptible relatively to
things moved equally in the same direction; I mean relatively to the thing
seen and the spectator.  

"Revolutions of Heavenly Spheres" sec 5 Nicolous Copernicus





------------------------ Yahoo! Groups Sponsor ---------------------~-->
Buy Stock for $4.
No Minimums.
FREE Money 2002.
http://us.click.yahoo.com/BgmYkB/VovDAA/ySSFAA/7CYolB/TM
---------------------------------------------------------------------~->

To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
selfish_genes-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com

 

Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/ 


