File: the_cat_minutes.txt
Content: minimalist Cat meeting minutes 3 Nov 2003
By: <predator>
Who: 
John Pink, Ned (black rose), Hugh, Sonia, Safari, JohnJ
Chris (not from cat), Len, Cameron the dude from Jura

Stuff:

Sydney Social Forum
-Was generally considered OK but not a lot of numbers there. Nice
slideshows, handouts of yummie knoppix cds.
-Webcast was not a success

Jura website
Cam wants a username (cam), so he got one, and Soz created jura too,
for the jura website hosting. Wants to donate some bux too.

Active Sydney fair
8 Dec 2003 (evening)
Is planned to be at UTS, Hugh and Safa are on the case.
There's a little webcast planned for this.
Room: straight ahead and down the stairs 
See:
active.org.au/sydney/fair/
see also, for the email list:
lists.cat.org.au/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/active_sydney_fair
You can sell stuff at your stall if its directly related to what we're
doing. Pred'l do his newbie hardware thing if someone will bring a
monitor.


Membership list
Did anyone cover this? I might have been asleep while this was
discussed. Slack-arsed minute takers...(me).

Aotearoa 
they donated some bux 
Safa has some interest in working with these people

Conway ifup/ifdown
Andy is in Singleton, so access to Conway is restricted; contact Andy and
he'll arrange with Safa to get access to Conway if it goes down. We fixed
some dodgyness with conway and the router upstream of it in October so 


DNS
dns@cat.org.au is the mail list for DNS gurus who need to manage our DNS
stuff. Soz is up for a primary DNS change on this Saturday 8 Nov.
Tarvat (the new firewall/router) is all happ'nin. Thanks Marty and Andy
and Andy-the-Tasmanian for geek firepower on this stuff.


TPG: They havent charged us this month; we will ditch 'em asap.
Maybe then send off our whinges about their incompetance.

Len murmured thusly:
Can someone please make a list : lakecowal@cat.org.au 

Indymedia was sent a prepublication copy of Chomsky's Hegemony or Survival
(Allen and Unwin.) I think Hugh or JJ opened it. Sav's gonna read it!
There's some-or-other silliness about wether or not any reviews of this
should be made available, but this is an indy issue. Pre-pub reviews are
basically a kind of tactical advertising, but I guess it's ok to just read
the book and say nuthin'   8-)

Ned: wants to be in Cat. 
He's in Black Rose which is already in Cat and has been for years and is
currently running TheHam anarchist newspaper). I think Safa created an
account for him last night.

Organarchy.org: still isn't working. The registrar needs to get our
nameserver info, get the registry keys sorted, yatta yatta. Someone Else's
Problem, at this stage.

Kim's Logon: 
it's happening, but I'm not sure who's doing it.

Leah: 
Put an ad in at a Surrey Hills local rag, some people responded re
old computers they wanted to get rid of, but none have dropped any here
8-) (A bit inconvenient for them).

Membership at cat.
Has been changed from an open to a closed list. JJ's gonna do some work
on this with the relevant people.

Gen Rankin donated some cash to cat via Leah Mason; Thanks Gen,
- Yay Leah! Thanks for anyone who's working on that mega-project.

Newtown Festival: Sunday (9th - this sunday) In that park off Australia
St. Black Rose has a stall there.

cbdset.com
Um, I dunno exactly what John wants us to do with this stuff. Mirror it?
Manage it? Validate it? We can host it but it's already being hosted. 

TWS
We are out of TWS (I took the redirector out a while ago). Was there
anything like IPAC running on avatar? We're waiting for Liam at alpha to
give TWS a better bandwidth breakdown. I forgot completely to get a nice
big card we could all sign and send to the TWS dudes.

SuperSuper secret destroy-the-state media room
It's above Black Rose on Cleveland St. It's sorta meant to be a publishing
/ media room. Would cat want to do a training evening up there? Public axs
is good. Cat can install some hardware there if they get a net connection
sorted out.

Gratuitous self-aggrandisement - CAT does infrastructure!
The STUCCO lan - about half a km of ethernet, 9 hubs, a shitload of holes
drilled, conduit run, etc etc, went online about two weeks ago. They luv
it, CAT got about three hunge out of it after the hardware (about $450 all
up - cheap!) and labour ($100 - cheap 'cos they fed me lotsa food, and did
a lot of the install themselves) was paid for. I liked the collaboration
and skillsharing a lot. See cat.org.au/cat/projects/ They're keen to do
some other collabs with us later.


Next meet: Monday 5th Dec, 7:30pm


My right to assert ownership over my omissions, brainos, typos, accidents,
outright delusions, slanders, gossip, is hereby recognised by me 8-)
Feel free to embellish this posting as you feel is neccessary.


<predator>
