From simon@rumble.net Mon Mar 17 12:56:12 2003
Date: Mon, 28 Oct 2002 14:53:37 +0000
From: Rev Simon Rumble <simon@rumble.net>
To: predator@cat.org.au, maffew@cat.org.au, andy@cat.org.au
Subject: The Maggie problem

Hiya guys.  I call these geek-guru conference to order.

You may be aware of this problem, but I'd like your advice on its
solution, technical or social.  I'm contacting you directly because
I'd rather discuss it in private first and then work out the
solution.

Maggie, my mother-in-law, is a lonely woman living in Wollongong and
with a number of mental health issues.  For whatever reason, she has
latched on to <predator> as, variously, an object of affection and
someone who is supposedly harrassing her.  In her strange worldview
she seems to think that pred has "hacked" her computer and is sending
her pornography and harrassment.

Some background: Maggie has in the past harrassed others including her
ex-husband, to the point of him having an Apprehended Violence Order
(AVO) slapped on her.  The harrassment in that case tended to come out
of long binges of mental illness and alcohol.

Anyway, for whatever reason she's fixated on pred and is conspiring to
make his life hell.  She sends him emails direct, which is easily
solved with some procmail hackery.

Recently she has escalated this to sending messages, accusing him of
all sorts of horrible things, to mailing lists he belongs to.  It
seems she's trawling around with a search engine for references to him
and blasting out hateful emails to anyone who will listen.

Most of the list admins involved (and Cat's virtual receptionist) know
the story and quietly delete the diatribes.  However, mud has a
tendency to stick if enough is thrown.  While it may be blatantly
untrue, I'd rather pred didn't start getting whispers and suspicious
glances.

Technically, we could solve this quite quickly and easily, on Cat
machines at least.  Procmail all her rants to /dev/null.  Getting that
implemented, however, would require a discussion and consensus and I'm
not sure that solves the sticky mud problem.  Regardless, we can't
solve it for anything outside Catalyst.

When I get home in December, I'm going to have a LONG discussion with
Maggie about this.  I'm not sure how useful that will be in her
delusional state but at least, perhaps, I can at least prove to her
that her machine hasn't been hacked.  Mabye even implement some spam
filters so she doesn't get the spam which she seems to think is coming
from pred.  At this point I'll have access to the source, so I could
potentially implement some outbound filtering, though if Maggie ever
worked out I was doing it I'd become part of the great worldwide
conspiracy of pred.

So I'm open to suggestions.  Her emailing pred directly isn't causing
any problems.  The mud slinging, however, is quite disturbing and not
something I'd wish on anyone.

Finally, thanks to pred for taking all this in such good humour.  I
think I would have lost patience LONG ago if I were on the receiving
end of this.  I owe you a large number of beers.

-- 
Rev Simon Rumble <simon@rumble.net>
www.rumble.net
Send email with subject "send key pub" for public key.

 "The ability to quote is a serviceable substitute for wit."
- Somerset Maugham

    [ Part 2, Application/PGP-SIGNATURE  196bytes. ]
    [ Unable to print this part. ]

