Woman Is the Vessel of the Devil: Tianna_99 replies
1. Lack
What is this hole of which you speak? What is it outside yourself you seek? I fill my cunt with silver; you fill your gap with rhetoric. You condemn me for my shallowness but your hole is just as deep. I say this to you to defend myself, as you defend yourself against me. You fill yourself with anger and it feeds you for a while. Thus the priest kills the beast of desire. You say I act upon you, exploit you, prey upon you. You console yourself that I too am a victim. That is the only way you can forgive me for what I am. When you have broken me, dissolved me, moulded me, you can praise yourself for understanding me. As you leave me weeping with your cruelty, you say I weep only because I am not ready for your words. Those who are not ready to hear the word of the Lord will be destroyed by it. You have broken the vessel but have you drunk its liquid?
2. The word
Why do my words arouse you thus? You are angered by my words as you are not angered by images. You put together your collection lovingly; you do not hurl such venom at those speechless faces. Your videos do not address you directly as I do; their words are intended to arouse as mine are, but they are directed between the actors; no voice reaches out of the screen to say 'Fuck me'. _Women shall be silent in the churches._ You are angry because you suspect I do not speak the truth. 
The telephone rings; I answer it. A client. I have what he needs: words. He has his lovely wife, their two children, a job which he believes fulfils a useful social function. They fuck regularly and blissfully. There is something else he wants, however. A stranger. A woman he does not know. The exotic, the other, the outsider. The sense of danger, the forbidden, the unknown. He does not want to see me in the flesh or touch me. Or, he does, but he wants to have that final fulfilment withheld, the mystery preserved. He likes my voice, smooth, honey-tinged, warm and intelligent. For other clients I can be girly and giggly; protean, I pour myself into the vessel each man wants to hold. To this man I am his priest and his confessor. We pretend we are in the booth. He calls me 'father'. He tells me he has been guilty of wicked thoughts. He dreams about wearing women's underwear, silky, lacy, soft and impractical. He and his wife wear sensible underwear, purchased in bulk from the supermarket. They do not waste money on externals; they contribute ten per cent of their income to Community Aid Abroad and go to meetings about East Timor. But he dreams about black lace g-strings as a thin woman dreams about chocolate cake. There is a little money he does not tell his wife about, which he saves for his calls to me. He tells her he gave it to a beggar in the street. He is not sure if he wants to wear such underwear or see a woman wearing it. He wants me to tell him he is wicked for thinking such things. I tell him to undress and put it on. I tell him that I, too, am wearing a lacy g-string. This is true, as it happens. I wear such clothing  both because my clients like it and because it gives me pleasure. Does it give me pleasure because I have been socially conditioned to believe I am inadequate without it, or because the sight of a woman in beautiful underwear is inherently a pleasing thing? The black lace contrasts against my white thighs; its colour may, as Freud suggested, mimic pubic hair -which, perversely, I do not have, as I have shaved it off- the flimsiness of the garment indicates that it is of no practical purpose whatever, if indeed there is any practical purpose to a woman's knickers. I think of this man in his lacy undergarment, his cock straining against the flimsy fabric, and feel aroused. I like to think of his strong, hard, masculine body adorned with such an incongruous, yet equally beautiful item. The juxtaposition of the incongruous stimulates both laughter and sexual pleasure. As we talk, I play with my nipples and my cunt. I tell him that he is a naughty boy for wanting to do such things, but confess to him that I am aroused. I tell him that I am stroking myself as we speak, and I hold the phone near my cunt so he can hear the movement of my hand against the fabric and flesh. I tell him that he is wicked for tempting me, a Father of the Church, to do such things. There is only one thing for it: he must do penance. I tell him to come into the booth with me. I slide a cupboard door open to imitate the sound of the grate between us being closed, and then I open and shut a door as he imagines being admitted into the booth. I describe the closeness of the air between us, the warmth of our bodies pressed together. I tell him I am lifting up my robes and rustle the fabric of my dress so he can imagine this. I order him to lie across my lap. I tell him to spread his legs, so that one of my knees is locked between his. Supported thus, I tell him I feel the pressure of his hard cock against my thigh. I tell him I am stroking his firm pale buttocks, admiring the contrast of the lace against his flesh. I tell him I pull the knickers to one side slightly so that his anus is exposed; I describe running my fingers along the cleft, the perineum, the balls, as much as I can reach. His back curves slightly as he pushes his buttocks towards me and his anus dilates: he wants me to penetrate him. I tell him he is wicked and sinful and disgusting, both for desiring such a thing and for tempting a holy person in such a way. I tell him that my cock is growing hard and that very soon I will be forced to rape him; against my own will, but he presents his sinful vessel so temptingly that I will be unable to control myself. It is not my fault but his. My wrath is provoked by this so much that I begin to beat him. I make the sounds by slapping my own thigh so he can hear. I continue to berate him for his wickedness as I slap myself, and the light pain arouses me still further. I tell him how aroused he makes me, how I can no longer stop myself from entering him. I order him to kneel on the floor, and I describe how brutally I push aside his knickers and fuck him. I moan, I grunt and slap. It is not long before I hear that resonant silence that means he is coming. I am his father confessor, I am his devouring mother, I am his accepting lover. Most of all, I am his exotic stranger. In the welter of images I give him, I do not know what is the last thing to go through his mind before he comes, but I know that I give him pleasure and for this he loves me, even though we will never meet and never touch. He thanks me and praises me for my perfect voice, and hangs up. 
3. You would not believe how wet my pussy is.
Of course you would not, and do not. Woman is the vessel of the Devil. I say these words to arouse you; I wish to arouse you only because I want something from you. Once it was because I wanted you for my own, for my master, the Devil, I wanted you to taste my apple to fill the hole in your belly, because, because, because . . . I am Woman, absence, negativity, otherness, darkness. It must be because I am jealous. I have a cavity where you have substance. You are the Light, and I am all that you are not. How binary the human mind is. And now that we have disproved God, now that we can replace faith with reason, we need another enemy. Our pride demands that we must have something to despise. And here I am in another guise: I want you for your money. You ask me if I am genuinely lonely, as if that were the only motivation I could have apart from money; in other words, another lack. And yet my pussy is wet as I hang up the phone, and as I write this story, and I stop writing after the second chapter and undress and step under the shower, and run its mobile nozzle over my clitoris, and enter my arse and cunt with my other hand, and imagine that I am the man and the woman in my story, and that I am you reading it, and remember the sex I had with you before I left, and the sex I did not have with another man I desire, and my past loves who live in this country, to whom I have spoken on the phone for the first time in ten years, about whom I did not even know how to imagine these things when I knew them, and I imagine the cocks of all the men I have ever wanted entering me, my mouth, arse, cunt, and I tighten my cunt around my hand, and then I remove my hand and play with my nipples while the water pours over my clitoris, so I am no longer filled but empty, although I still imagine those cocks entering me, and I do this until I come. I do this not because my writing has aroused me to the degree where I can no longer control myself, but because I have never had such a shower nozzle to experiment with before, and my writing has aroused me sufficiently so that this is a good time to try using it. My orgasm is good, but it is my writing I am aching to return to. 
4. If you have any intellectual substance at all, you'd better start talking.
You are suspicious. You no longer believe in the Devil, so I cannot be pursuing you at his behest. And I send this story to you free of charge, so I cannot be trying to exploit you for financial gain. I say to you that I am not lonely; you can accept or disbelieve this as you see fit. I have many friends and lovers. You cannot understand why I respond to you in this way; of all the options you imagine, none of them quite fit. 
5. I will tell you why.
Initially, your letter angered me. Your arguments are rational according to the logical system in which they are founded, but they are delivered with such arrogance and judgment that it is clear you believe yourself to be arguing from a highly superior position. There is the odd disclaimer such as 'sorta', 'kinda', and 'I can only speak from my own experience', but I am not fooled by such things. Although you have abandoned the church, you are unable to detach yourself from its methods of argument. This is understandable, as scholarship itself began in the monasteries, and thus the very framework we have for intellectual inquiry is founded in religious practice. I do not believe that this is any reason for despair; instead, it should make us wonder whether such exercises as religious faith, science, literature, art et al are not simply outgrowths of the same human impulse: to understand and to exercise our imaginations, as our abilities have evolved beyond those that allow us merely to eat, breed and keep warm. But that is a matter for another debate. Let us return to the subject at hand, so to speak. My advertisement aroused your anger; it also, I believe, aroused you sexually. These things are commonly intertwined, perhaps because the strength of emotion involved in both states means that they can easily become confused. In any case, it was not enough simply for you to delete my email and place me on your filtering list. You wanted to engage with me, and in that sense I have got what I wanted from you. Do you feel exploited by this? Although the patronising tone of your letter infuriated me, especially as it echoed in form if not in substance similar sentiments I have heard from my religious clients, it also stimulated me to produce this story. You have fed my creativity. I hesitate to name this another lack, but perhaps it is, as my writing is always a response to the 'outside' world. And yet it is always an expression of the 'inside' world. Binaries do not do, they do not do at all. It seems so glib to call upon Queen Elizabeth I's _via media_, an idea which finds its expression in Buddhism and many other things besides, but perhaps Queen Elizabeth is an appropriate patron saint: sexually abstinent, her own creativity nourished also the creativity of others. 
