Telecommunications Industry Ombudsman
1800 062 058
POBox 276
Collins St West
Melbourne VIC 8007

Ref: 03/056256
Attn: Thaedra Frangos

July 1 2003.


I represent a non-profit computer collective, cat.org.au, which has been
operating since 1996.

This is a brief summary of what I consider to be extraordinary serial
ineptitude on the part of TPG, a sydney DSL internet service provider. It
has impacted seriously on the function of cat.org.au and numerous users
thereof.

Cat.org.au decided in approximately the middle of 2002 to acquire a DSL
service to its primary DNS server in Turella, NSW. This was envisaged to
replace an existing Telstra permanent modem connection, and was planned to
occur by the end of 2002, and after cat.org.au purchased appropriate
bridge-mode DSL modem hardware, initial setup with TPG, was successfully
implemented. 

It was noticed in the early days of the link that there was far more
download speed available than was required. At a meeting prior to
acquisition of the DSL link from TPG, cat.org.au decided that the initial
service should be 256kb/sec download, 64kbit/sec upload. It turned out
that TPG had instituted a 512kbit/sec download link, and would be presumed
to bill commensurately for this, a value beyond that for which cat.org.au
had budgeted. TPG were notified of this and rectified the speed setting to
what was originally requested - the correction of this misconfiguration
costing cat.org.au $100.

For the ensuing few months, TPG's DSL service was good. In approximately
May 2003, due to changes at cat.org.au's primary website at Surry Hills,
cat.org.au decided on the basis of this good service that the email,
webserving and development infrastructure at Surry Hills should be moved
to Turella by July, and be connected to the TPG DSL link. In June,
arrangements were made to ensure that

a) Telstra would release cat.org.au's class C IP address range (they did)
   so that content would be served off machines bearing cat.org.au's IP
   numbers;

b) TPG would route cat.org.au's class C IP address range over the existing  
   DSL link to the Turella site where cat.org.au's primary DNS server was
   functioning.

It was envisaged that June would provide enought time for configuration
issues to be ironed out prior to moving the equipment from Surry Hills to
Turella.

The request to TPG to route cat.org.au's class C address range
(203.57.122.x) over the existing DSL link occurred in early June. Since
this request was made, the Turella half of the cat.org.au operation,
including primary DNS has been stone dead. It is still dead as I write
this letter on July 1st, 2003. Since this is the case, the move from Surry
Hills is impeded, and this is irritating a lot of cat.org.au members.

In the first two weeks of June, extensive cat.org.au technician time and
effort was directed to faultfinding : cat.org.au hardware was tested, our
Debian gnu/Linux router configuration tested, and when no fault was found
with these, TPG was contacted by telephone, by myself, on approx. 20th
June. Our primary DNS server had, by this time, been uncontactable for
about two weeks. 
 
The DSL tech support person (you never get the same one twice) informed me
that the cat.org.au connection TYPE had been changed from type B (bridged
mode, which had worked for the previous several months) to type C
(requiring a dedicated DSL router connection). This had the immediate
consequence that the cat.org.au DSL hardware, over which the original link
existed, was not able to talk to the TPG end of the connection. At no time
did cat.org.au request a connection type change, since this would require
purchase of additional DSL hardware, for about $300. The helpdesk person
(named Sam) mentioned that TPG were apparently routing the cat.org.au
Class C address range to our (non-)connection. He also mentioned, when I
asked, that our Class C address range could be routed over the previously
existing type B connection; there was apparently no need for a connection
type change at all.

To avoid the additional $100 charge for requesting TPG clear up their
type/class misapprehension, Cat.org.au duly procured a router-capable DSL
modem (money spent on hardware, we keep; money spent on TPG fixing their
errors, we lose). Despite several attempts at configuration, the new DSL
router-capable modem was unable to talk to the TPG gateway. A visit from
$150/hr TPG technical support was duly arranged for 10am Monday 30th June.

It arrived an hour late, while two cat.org.au technicians were waiting.
Darryl Sin instantiated the connection to TPG using _TPG's_ IP numbers and
cat.org.au's new DSL modem/router. He determined that cat.org.au's Class C
address range was not, in fact, being routed to this connection. At the
insistence of the cat.org.au technicians, he attempted to get TPG to
update their routing table (which would mean TPG's network was down for
two seconds, approximately; c.f. three weeks for which cat.org.au Turella
operation had been offline) but was refused, and told that the routing
table update would occur at 3am, July 1st, 2003.

It didn't. 

What do we have to do to get this connection to happen?

As I write, the routing of cat.org.au's Class C range has still not been
implemented. TPG seems to have lost the original fax requesting the
changes required by cat.org.au. It has been sent to TPG again.

In all this has been a needlessly painful, expensive, frustrating waste of
time for scores of people.





