From predator@cat.org.au Fri Apr 18 14:31:54 2003
Date: Sat, 1 Mar 2003 18:58:17 +1100 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: Jocelyn Hungerford <idiotproofau@yahoo.com.au>
Subject: Fellertone...

Hi Joss...

I had the batphone turned off for most of today. It's on now and will be
for the rest of the night. I did get a call on friday arvo but I didn't
dig the pestilential device out of my jacket pocket in time to answer it,
and I rang the originating number only to find an answering machine
sounding nothing like you. Don't let these insurmountable impediments
dissuade you. If I don't answer straight away it might also be 'cos I
am on the road and can't stuff the device into my helmet fast enough
while trying not to crash the 'cycle. 

SMSs work too.

Cheeries....

<predator>
 





From predator@cat.org.au Fri Apr 18 14:31:54 2003
Date: Sun, 2 Mar 2003 02:10:34 +1100 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: Jocelyn Hungerford <idiotproofau@yahoo.com.au>
Subject: Re: Beautiful


> Dear predator,
> That has to be one of the most beautiful things I have
> ever read.

Good, good. (massage my ego, hah hah)

I hovered over httpd and noticed you got it at exactly 3 and a half
minutes past midnight, from 210.10.161.30 (a dialup line into
syd.dialup.connect.net.au), three seconds after requesting (via a link in
an old post of mine stored on au.f209.mail.yahoo.com) the picture of
yourself in the botanic gardens. Using Mozilla (a.k.a. Netscape).

Server logs are great things! Lemme know when I can take it down.

> I am not anhonest person, not by a long shot, but I'm flattered that
> you, who are so honest yourself, think so.

Well, I dunno. You *revealed* a lot of stuff which most people would
normally try to hide, I suspect, and I think this took gutz and honesty;
I'm full of the same inconsistencies as everyone else, I pretty much run
the same neurological chunk o' meat as every other human, and have mostly
the same capacity for self-delusion. So I'm not particularly honest, I
suspect, but I appreciated your candour about stuff.   

If one is going to be a liar, one has to be really *good* at it. 

I'm not.

I can usually tell when I'm being bullshitted but perhaps not when I'm uh,
seduced.

> You'll never stop being a Catholic, I think. That's
> not a jibe. It's a compliment in a funny kind of way.

Were I a Catholic I'd have great moral qualms about, say, shagging
20-yr-old film students, or encouraging them to shag other people while
they're overseas (and she's just informed me that she's finally got some
nice Euro shlong). And shoplifting. Swearing. Killing animals. Trespass.
Taking the name of the fuckin', FUCKIN', #&@&@(@ Lord in vain. And a pile
of other things. I have discovered to my delight that I have no such
qualms. I might have had once, but that period of my life has long since
elapsed. I have other reasons for being honest (during those times I am
honest). Mainly laziness and the desire for reciprocated honesty. My
memory and imagination aren't good enough to enable me to lie well, so
it's hard work. But I kind of like being straight-up anyway, so these
inadequacies dovetail in a complementary way.

> It's only now that I'm realising how deep the roots of
> our behaviour go. How, in acting on a deep unconscious
> impulse to misbehave, break the rules, cause trouble,
> I was acting on a behaviour pattern that was stamped
> into me when I was still soft. It's good to understand
> and honour these things.

(shakes head... why does one have to get _married_ to discover this?)

I mentioned to you years ago in the botanic gardens, people behave in such
a way as optimises their reproductive success, and we can't really be
blamed for it. It has its risks, as you know (read Jarred Diamond, Rise
and Fall of the 3rd Chimpanzee, specifically the breakdown of motivation
for murders in New York). But there it is, basic human nature. Facts don't
go away for being ignored. Might as well get comfie with it.

> Maybe I am being honest in confessing to my deep dishonesty. 

What _am_ I to do with this claim?

An unfortunate aspect to predicate logic is that lies drive out truth, and
errors spread: One cannot believe an individual who claims to be a liar 8-)

Were it evolutionarily advantageous to tell the truth, we'd all do it
without a qualm. As it is:

1) We all tell lies to everyone, 
2) we lie to ourselves that we don't tell lies, 
3) we lie to ourselves that other people don't tell lie 

2) reinforces 3) and 3) makes 1) possible.

> But I'm glad you said no. 


I am successfully convincing myself the offer wasn't serious. Though I've
had to ignore faint protests from a certain cyclopean anencephalate of
your past acquaintance.

> I'm shuddering to thinkabout
> the pain I have already caused you. You kept it from
> me, instead of punishing me or confronting me with it.


We had some good stuff prior to that, and I try to dwell on it instead.
But I have to stop, it just notifies me of your absence.

As for pain, seriously, what good would it do to tell you? It wasn't
something you could fix, and maybe it should not have been fixed. Anyway I
thought you've suffered enough morose, serotonin-depleted pennings and
repeated emailed misapprehensions of which depressed alcoholic authoress
wrote what, so I just quit nagging you. 8-)

Then I discovered there's laws against putting me out of my misery, so
I just _had_ to cheer up. 

Eventually.

> Thank you for your kindness in doing that, but the pain must have been
> twice as bad for it. It always goes somewhere.

I've discovered something great, actually. Eventually... it goes
... away! I think, were our memories perfect, these sort of things would
be a lifelong burden, but amnesia frees us eventually. Thank neuronal
apoptosis! But then ya reappeared, and lots has returned to mind. Ow. 

Given a few weeks, it'll go away again. 

> I am trying to print out a copy, so that when you take
> it down I will always have it. Leave it up for a bit
> longer, I'm having trouble with my printer.

You and the rest of the world are having trouble with their printer. I
have the file stashed someplace, I think. So if it's off the air I can
still send ya a copy.

Clear the cache on your browser, lest it (and this) remain in the disk on
your machine for disk-covery by <insert random snooper here>.

> Sleep well my good friend, and may God (substitute any
> other thing of your choice) be with you.

You've proven: A genuine hug from a genuine human beats god anyday. 
 
(Come to think of it, so does cold beer and a pizza, but not by as much.)


Oh, yeah, delete this, too - saves lots of explaining-if-discovered.
Devious....!

I archive everything so I can send it to ya later if ya need it.

> Love
> Joss



"She's a predator."  -Picard


Yeah. Love you too. Good to hear your voice.

<predator>


From predator@cat.org.au Fri Apr 18 14:31:54 2003
Date: Mon, 3 Mar 2003 15:13:59 +1100 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: Jocelyn Hungerford <idiotproofau@yahoo.com.au>
Subject: Re: Truth

Hey dude, sorry for the lag... is there no chance of you saving storm.doc
as something universally readable, like MS-DOS text, or raw ASCII, and
then sending it to me? It'll be much more raw and unedited than you think
when I look at it with a non-Microsoftian tool.

We useless linux weenies don't parse Wurd very well.

On Sun, 2 Mar 2003, Jocelyn Hungerford wrote:

> Otherwise known as raw, unedited burblings, attached.
> Please forgive spellings.
> Love
> Joss

Cheeries...

<predator>


From predator@cat.org.au Fri Apr 18 14:31:54 2003
Date: Mon, 3 Mar 2003 15:31:56 +1100 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: Jocelyn Hungerford <idiotproofau@yahoo.com.au>
Subject: Re: Truth

Actually, cancel that last drivel of mine, I just found a great tool
called word2x which will take word files and turn 'em into ascii. Now
digging in... thanks!


<predator>



From predator@cat.org.au Fri Apr 18 14:31:54 2003
Date: Mon, 3 Mar 2003 19:08:24 +1100 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: Jocelyn Hungerford <idiotproofau@yahoo.com.au>
Subject: Rantathon!

Hi joss! Thanks for the letter! Replies intercalated:

>I'm not sure I believe in truth, she says. I couldn't be as honest as you
>are. You live your life rigorously, you have principles, you do not bend
>them. I exist in the cracks.

If I don't like my principles, I forsake 'em. If I cannot forsake them, I
bend 'em. We all bend 'em. We are meat, not glass - one can see through
glass, it is only strong enough to bend light, and when imposed upon, it
shatters, and forms the major constituent of beaches the world over. 

I probably hide my lies better than you. 

Im not sure who said: "If you can fake sincerety, you've got it made!"

Maybe Dale Carnegie?

> My whole life is a lie, she says, I know it sounds melodramatic but
> everything at some level is lying. It's a social construct. I can't keep
> going if I think I have to tell the truth. I tried it. I was honest. I
> honestly loved three people: you, him and Tom. It split my heart in
> three. I still love you.

Lying is a survival mechanism. Mostly, I think, evolved so we can tolerate
ourselves, or the idiocy of the circumstances we are stuck in. We're all
shot through with fabrications, plagiarisms, inconsistencies, me
especially. None of us are quite what we appear. We hide from ourselves in
the stories we fabricate to make us palatable to others. It's normal. We
live with it.

Love's another animal entirely. It *assumes* (correctly) the very
palatability we seek to convince ourselves we have. What defence can we
have against it but more of the same self-delusion? 

>You're trying to convince yourself that my offer wasn't genuine. You call
>it an offer, as If I were offering you something rather than asking you
>for something.

I have to nail myself to the ground with this abstraction, this
rationalisation, that you weren't really asking. Forgive me. From where I
sit, you're a gift; I have to turn myself into Tantalus; I cannot recieve
you, as much as I'd like to. I can't concieve of myself as able to provide
people with what they need in life, since I feel barely able to provide
for myself, so that you were _asking_ me for something never quite
appeared on my screen. I sense it was not easy for you to pop the
question, 'cos it was also not easy for me to realise it would eventually
appear, natural as a sunrise, the light of which might scald me. But
thanks for your bravery in doing so. I'd not the gutz to ask the same.


> They say you shoud always look at the screen not at the
>keys when you're typing, but I can't face the words that are
>appearing. Better to look down at the letters and see the patterns, the
>words forming there and disappearring back into the wswilr swirl of the
>alphabet.

Yeah? fuck 'em, I look at the keys.

What, I ask myself, do I possess, worthy of your acqusition? Have I
presented myself to you as something I am not?


>You think the offer was not serious,. Its it worse or better if it was
>serious? I will tell you whichever version of th truth you want to
> hear.

I will accept whatever truth I can survive.

>It was and was not serious. It was serious in the way that when you roll a
>dice and you say to yourself I will take X action if the numbers are 1, 3
>or 6, and y action if the bnumbers are 2, 4 or 5. I trusted in the roll of
>the dice. I'm glad it turyned out the way it did but possibly I would have
>been glad if it had turned out the other. 

Did i feel a faint flash as the universe split into two alternatives, and
I fell into the one which led to us writing these letters <thud> ?

> I wanted to sleep with you. To say goodbye. But it's not always the
> kindest way to say goodbye. I am not always kind, and certainly not always
> honest. There is only one place where I can be rigorously honest, and
> the\at is here, on the page.

I think it was better when you said goodbye in such a way as would
not confuse me. The skin I live in only knows how to welcome you back.


>In fisrst year phoilosophy they always give you the conundrum: should you
>always tell the truth? Then they ask you, if your wife was khiding and an
>attacker came into the house to kill her asnd asked, where is your wife,
>should you or should you not tell the truth? It's a simple, clear-cut case.

The universe is mostly not simple or clear-cut. This is therefore
unrepresentative of real-world conundrums: it presumes there is no
advantage to you in to revealing her location, and presumes no advantage
to the attacker in leaving her alive, and a stack of other things. All of
which, devious scheming animals we are, we can assume the attacker to have
worked out in advance. The successful murderer never reveals the plan.

I'll put my hand a bit closer to the fire : What would happen if someone
came to me asking where you were, in order to find and kill you (You
know, jealous, enraged husband, or lover, or something?) 

If I lied to them this would not probably not stop them eventually
locating you. Better for me to reveal a false location they considered
plausible, chase them down and kill them when they get there... they'll be
additionally pissed off that I lied to them anyway.

But what if they're lying to me about intending to kill you? Maybe they're
asking if I know your location in order to determine if they should kill
_me_ (since I would supposedly only know your location if, say, we were
um, cohabitating against the killer's will). In which case any answer is
bad. Better for me to try and kill them.

How about, someone threatened to kill my sister? I'd give them the
location, a loaded firearm, a picture of her, and a key to her premises,
if I had them. 

They don't teach that in philosophy class, do they? One has to go to
evolutionary biology to get the good shit.

The preceding thoughts occur in a brain evolved for the purpose of
self-defence and the protection of reproductive resources. Of course it
won't tell the truth in some circumstances. Philosophers wield this
discovery around as if it's some sort of astounding surprise but it's
exactly what we expect, and exactly what they observe. I suppose they
leave their doors unlocked at night too and complain when they're burgled?

>And then of course there is all Cretans are liars, or all liars are Cretans,
>so if a moan who is a Cretan says he is a Cretan than is he a cretan or a
>liar. It's all jumbled up. I don't know where to start from. 

And therein lies the lesson - that logic doesn't usefully work in all
situations. Nellie is an elephant. All elephants are pink. Nellie is a
pink elephant. Astounding, Holmes! But - have you seen any pink elephants
lately Watson? Uh, no.

> I am adrift in the universe and have no footholds. 

That probably sucks a lot. I remember it.

> I may not have done
> the right thinkg in getting married. This is the one thing that no-one
> will allow me to say. We are not allowed to express doubt, especially not to our
> beloveds.

This assumes a certain frailty on the part of the beloveds. Which I have,
too.  Skepticism is something we should use... it's a tool... its not a
fun tool, or a nice tool, but it sometimes answers our questions. I doubt
myself a lot. 

The stakes have been raised considerably, in your case. For all i know,
you might be right, but 1) I am biased and 2) I am in no position to
judge.

Who is to know if yours, or any, marriage, is the right thing or not?
Generally only the two people in it. We learn most interesting things from
big mistakes. We can't know this stuff in advance. I don't know what to do
if these things go wrong, but the involvement of lawyer types is probably
inadvisable.

> I love you because you know about these cracks. You have a scientific
> evolutionary theory for most things that happen, which is well and
> good. 

It isn't ALL well and good... it hurts me emotionally, but it helps me
functionally. God didn't help. Ever. In either department. Had to chuck
God in the garbage.


>I have no such theory. Every explanation presented brings to mind a
>but. But.

But.. Of course! Do you think it's every any different for a scientist?
Science is built on unbelief, uncertainty, the idea that nature and
ourselves conspire to hoodwink us (although they do this in a systematic
way). Evolution works OK, but not for everything. It works for a lot of
the human behaviour I observe.

>What about this and this. I am religious. Perhaps I wasn't honest enough
>with you about that. There are narratives beneath our narratives, and
>narratives below that even that we can't see. Now I soulnd as mad as
>you.

woooah... you'll start mentioning hermeneutic circles and other such
incomprehensibles in a sec, and then I won't know *what* you're on about.

The human mind evolved to be susceptible to religion. You fight enemies
all the harder, and work all the longer for nothing, if you think some god
will reward you for it after you die. I think it's crap. I used to be
infected by one, you know. Now I'm not. 

>Do you really think the world is going to end? They have been saying that
> for ventruries, millenia..

The descendants of the survivors of previous societal collapses have been
selected to saying that. I hear no voices from the anasanzi, the aztecs,
the romans in the chorus of doubters. 

The _world_ will not end, of course. However, Western, energy-greedy
industrial consumer society is incontrovertably doomed by the second law
of thermodynamics. I'm a scientist and I can tell you none of the
remaining energy source alternatives are going to save it. Politicians
will lie about it. I have no god, no magic energy source to run to. My
only doubt is about when it will start.

The planet will continue its blithe, merry orbit; plate tectonics,
glaciation, the tides will do their things for a very long time to
come. But most of that doesn't matter to you and I. We live very short
lives.

Most of the ecosystem will eventually crash (from leaking radwaste), but
in the meantime has been crashing for years at the rate of hundreds of
species *per day* as we chop down the trees, catch all the fish, shoot all
the animals, pollute the waters and soils with heavy metals, oestrogen
mimics, etc etc etc. Western civilisation progressed from muscle, to wood,
to coal, to oil, to nukes for its energy source. Coal started industrial
civilisation with the steam engine in the 1700's. The population then was
one twelfth of what it is now. Oil took over in the 1900's and with it
came a massive increase in population from an explosive growth in
agriculture. Nuke breeders haven't worked and anyway, if they did they'd
only produce electricity - can't make plastics, lubricants, or oil from
that! Most of the remaining oil will shortly not be worth the effort of
sucking it out of the ground at ANY price.  Which makes most of the
remaining coal irretrievable.  We have chopped down most of the wood. That
leaves muscle power to run jet planes, computers, industrial
manufacturing, mechanised mass agriculture.... and muscle power just can't
do it all. We've depleted the groundwater, the quality ores, the arable
soil, the protection of the ozone layer, and the bulk of the ecosystemic
codebase (animal and plant diversity). Six billion humans remain to fight
over the scraps. Most will lose. 

Oil provides 37% of direct energy use and contributes to the availability
of almost all other energy use since the other energy sources have to be
mined (coal, uranium, gas) using oil derivatives to power the mining
machinery. The remaining supply of available oil will decrease
exponentially in the coming 10 years, starting roughly last year. Prices
will go insane, availability will drop sharply. This generally provokes
wars.

Suppose we find another billion barrels of retrievable oil tomorrow. This
will delay the crash by about a week. We use 28 thousand million barrels a
year. This use is increasing. We have been finding 7 thousand million
barrels a year for the last decade, and less in recent years.

2.7 million barrels of oil per year are formed on earth. A thousand times
less than what we consume.

You've read Ozymandias (Shelley). Read it again. Our ruins will merely be
more durable than the stone and steel of previous collapses.

Humans are wired up to deny their own mortality. Economists think if you
print enough money, more energy will appear. They're wrong. Even rational
scientist friends I know can't wrap their head around the energy crash
scenario, it just doesn't appeal to their comfort-addicted brains. The war
in Iraq is not about terrorism, it's about access to the remaining cheaply
accessible oil to which the West is addicted. In case it isn't plainly
obvious to everyone by now 8-)

Starvation teaches one what one can do when one is hungry. I have met very
few people who have fasted for more than 2 days. Can you imagine London,
Paris, NewYawk... Sydney ... full of really fucking hungry people?

The world will not end. Western industrial society, in which you and I are
currently trapped, will end. If we still depend on it, we will end too. We
will end anyway, but perhaps sooner and more messily than we would like,
if we hang around.


>I wanted my memories back. When the bus rides past the Powerhouse I think of
>a steaming afternoon, and grilled eggplant in the evening, and angry paris,
>and a joint I roled and put in my purse and tdidn't smoke, and chickpea
>curry (you can tell how attached I am to my food), and a beautiful naked
>boy,, white mus cles gelaming like marble, green veins threaded through,
>and a red cock, and the way you caught me after I rwriggled through that
>tiny space to a drop down below into the dark. I have never been so
>frightened in my life.

But don't it make ya feel *alive* ? Go in drains!

You *have* your memories, evidently. 

And I, too. Thank you for them. (grin fondly).


> I'm not a law-breaker, only of the laws of the heart, of social
> niceties, of the laws that really mater.

Sure you're a law-breaker. You dope fiend, you 8-)

> I am terrified of ending up in jail.

And rightly so... meet some of the ex-prisoners at Justice Action and one
rapidly comes to an understanding of why gaols are A Bad Place.
The legal system exists to create prisoners. So - don't get caught 8-)

> All through my trip to Europe I talked about nothing but our excursion
> to the powerhouse. Entracnced. 

Geez.

>It hurt Paris beyond belief. He had always wantined to go there, and I
>had never even heard him when he said he wanted to go. I was deaf to him
>for three years, shutting him out. I didn't know he was depressed, I
>couldn't concentrate on him.


I am coming to an understanding this, gradually. He'll probably hate the
place forever now.

> You remind me of my father. You look like him. Ibn stoned moments I
> fantasise about fucking you and then see my father's face flash up at me
> atop your body, and shudder in revolt. You calm and reassure me, playing
> the role my father always played in the family melodrama. My mother created
> hysteria, my father calmed it down.

Hmmm... *definately* time to cut back on the weed prior to
fantasising. 8-)

> Took my side, assured me that there was a world of rationatlity and
> truth, that these wild emotions were not the whole picture.

Funny, that's the sort of stuff *my* dad told me. My mum still creates
hysteria, but it is perfunctorily brushed-off now. She will whinge that I
didn't call her for her 70th birthday last weekend. I will ignore her.
Yes, there is a rational universe. But it is complex and subtle and not
something we naturally comprehend without effort. It's indifferent but at
least sort of consistent. As distinct from parents.

> I've been searching for that in various people throughtout my
> life, I realise. Looking for fathers, looking for calm men who can hold the
> storm. I'm not married to such a man. Aaron is a storm. I love it but
> it's exhausting.

Well, then, ride the lightning gloriously. Play lots of sturm und drang
classical music. 

A very big storm cometh, not of your or my making, a storm which began
in 1850 when oil was first extracted from Pennsylvania. We happen to be
living in the last of the cheap oil years. We get to watch the end of the
greatest civilisation on earth. How privelaged is that?

> All of us have storms, of course, you have yours. You just didn't inflict
> them on me. You're right, I couldn't have coped. I was going mad in my own
> way too. I felt so much pain and regret, as if I never should have started
> my relationship with Aaron. 

One implies in this thought a choice you might not have possessed. 



>I hadn't finished things with you, you were still there, in my mind the
> whole time. I pushied you right to the back as
> if that would help. I couldn't stand to face what I `d done, the pain I
> caused. Because I did love you, I still love you. You are one of the most
> amazing people I had ever met. What I wanted on Tuesday night was not just
> an evolutionary biological impulse, but to go back to a place we can't go 
> back to.

At least we went there. I still feel privelaged to have visited that place. 

> It hurts to know that. You opended my mind and changed my life and
>set me free (to make more mistakes, but that's my own fault!). 

A am very happy to have emancipated you - though I am not sure from what,
nor into what.

One should always have the chance to own some mistakes. They're so
valuable they don't sell them in shops.


> You have an amazing mind and a forgiving nature. You never attack
> (again, just like my father).

Oh, I attack, all right. You've glimpsed the rage I have against my proxy
rellos.  

I never attack _you_. I can't see how it would help anything. I can't
imagine you as anything other than a friend.


>My mother referred to you at lunch on Friday. She was talking about how all
>the people us kids have brought home how they are all nice respectable
>middle-class people, `except you did bring home that strange man that time'.
>I wasn't sure if she was talking about Patrick, the psychotic boyfriend, or
>you. I didn't like to aks. I think she conflates the two of you. The
>conversation moved on, I didn't protest or defend you (if it was you). But
>if it was you, I thought to my mother, in my head: how can you not see how
>like Daddy he is? The same blond hair, the same red beard.

... the same penchant for playing with information technology...
 
> In idle moments I wonder if you are actually my pbrother it's feasible,
> my father could have had an affair a few years before I was born, you
> have the same quick clever mind, the same mathematical and scientific
> genius (I do think you are a genius even if you are mad) and the same
> appreciation of music. The sound of taboos shattering is deafening! 

More evolution: we tend to like to shag the people who look like the
people with whom we spend our very early years. (see Jared Diamond)

There is a small spot of your menstruum on my mattress protector. I used
to look at it and tell myself it was all I had of you (possessive of me I
think). If your dad sired me, I could use RFLP on your and my bloods to
determine this. But I'm not about to go looking.


>I think ithis is part of the reason for my
>withdrawal from you, I lost sexual interest because the incest fantasy was
>playing out in my mind. Nothing to do with anything you've done or who you
>are, just my storyteller's paranoid imagination playing me up. I couldn't
>keep fucking you and seeing my father's face. It's tempting to make a crack
>here, I `m a bad girl but not that bad etc. It was part of the attraction
>as well, I think.

Why couldn't ya tell me this before you left, dude? 

I'll have to drop Keith a thank you note at some stage. Anonymously, of
course.

>So I'm a human being. Inconsistent, devious, a liar, unfaithful, inconstant
>and all the rest. There are lies I have to live to make life worth living. I
>don't believe in working for money but it's part of the human experience and
>I can' stand bing cut off from that.

It's a trap. We spend our lives as slaves to different masters with
different pay rates. And we cannot get out of it. You shouldn't be ashamed
of it.

> I don''t believe in marriage and I'm  not even sure if I believe in the
> relationship I'm having, but if we hadn't got married I couldn't have
> worked and believe you me, after spending six months fighting with Aaron
> about money it's not something I ever want to go through again. 

Wow. I'd rather be poor and free, but I know that poverty is another ugly
trap. I've briefly lived in it 8-)


My lone brain cell informs me you've exchanged spritiual freedom for
economic independance; I can't see how it's a mistake for a prisoner to
move to a more comfortable gaol. How many millions of people have made the
same decision before you and benefitted by it?

I can't figure out why ya had to go to England to find all this out!

> Marriage is something we're trying because it might just make
> this relationship work but my heart is full of doubts. I can't talk about
> this to anyone, I can't admit to anyone that I think I've made a mistake.

The first step on the road to error correction is admitting that mistakes
are possible - unlike the pope pretends to be, we're not
infallible. Reality exists wether we choose to ignore it or not.

A relationship which can't survive doubt is probably not as robust as it
should be (does doubt-intolerance sound like religion to you?) and maybe
you should discuss these doubts now, while they aren't quite so entrenched
by elapsed years. Maybe Aaron'll be having his own, or suspect them in
you, and will be grateful for your airing them. But I really dunno, it
could all be playing with dynamite. I don't know the circumstances very
well. 

And what would you do if you got unmarried anyway?

> But at the same time I know that doubt is part of any undertaking and you
> can't let it stop you from trying things.

Yeah. It's the only way we ever learn anything. 

You make me cry a lot of late. 

I appreciate your sincerity and candour, and love you for taking the time
to write this. I'm touched, again.



See ya later, lachrymator!


<predator>






From predator@cat.org.au Fri Apr 18 14:31:54 2003
Date: Tue, 4 Mar 2003 10:57:22 +1100 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: idiotproofau@yahoo.com.au
Bcc: auryn03@hotmail.com
Subject: Discovering mortality...



Hi there. 

This morning on the way to UNSW I managed to brake too hard while
taking a suddenly-conjested corner and dropped my bike shortly before
skating along the road and into the back bumper of the car in front.

It sustained paint-work damage on its bumper.  I paid my 3rd party
insurance last year so that's probably covered.

It happened close to work (intersection of Todman Ave and Lenthall St
Randwick) so I parked the bike on the footpath and the chap whose car I
crashed into actually dropped me the rest of the way to work.

The bike is probably ridable back to the shop in Blakehurst (I'll
straighten the handlebar with brute force until I can steer it), but
I'll need to replace the handlebar, which has a newly installed
right angle in it. I'll carefully ride it back to the shop tonight.

The driver (who is OK) and I have exchanged details. 

I am slightly grazed on my right patella and have slight muscle tear in
the lumbar region, just above the illiac crest. I don't remember my
anatomy very well, but it feels like this would be the extreme lower
margin of the latissumus dorsi. I think I got out of it pretty lightly.

The leather gloves, boots and jacket did their job very well, I took a lot
of load on my left arm and right hand but they're immaculate!!

Anyhow... just so you get the good news while it's fresh in my mind.

Cheeries...

<predator>












From predator@cat.org.au Fri Apr 18 14:31:54 2003
Date: Wed, 5 Mar 2003 15:34:58 +1100 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: idiotproofau@yahoo.com.au
Subject: the big pissoffski...


Yuurm, the daze are elapsing so quickly!


I think before we leave we should allocate some time for a chat, so if
you're up for one, lemme know.


(and - bring Pinker's book with you please, if you've read it).


Love ya -


<predator>



From predator@cat.org.au Fri Apr 18 14:31:54 2003
Date: Wed, 5 Mar 2003 20:11:31 +1100 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: Jocelyn Hungerford <idiotproofau@yahoo.com.au>
Subject: Re: the big pissoffski...


> Dear predator,
> Glad to hear you're still alive after your brush with
> death! Sorry I didn't wrte back yesterday but I had a
> very long day. 

Ah, twas a very faint brush with death. I spent a lot of today fixing the
bent bits on the motorbike. It feels funny driving straight when one's
steering system points decidedly leftwards.

> At the moment it looks like Sunday is my next free
> day. Perhaps we could go to the Botanic Gardens? i do
> love it there!

Yeah... name a spot and time you can plausibly be there and I'll be there!

> Let me know
> Joss


Cheeries...

<predator>


From predator@cat.org.au Fri Apr 18 14:31:54 2003
Date: Wed, 5 Mar 2003 20:15:33 +1100 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: Jocelyn Hungerford <idiotproofau@yahoo.com.au>
Subject: Re: the big pissoffski...

Ah, and you still write beautifully, even if you look at the keys.



Typos are the handwriting of digital media.



<foolish grin>


<predator>


From predator@cat.org.au Fri Apr 18 14:31:54 2003
Date: Fri, 7 Mar 2003 19:14:44 +1100 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: Jocelyn Hungerford <idiotproofau@yahoo.com.au>
Subject: Re: the big pissoffski...

> Dear predator,
> Glad to hear you're still alive after your brush with
> death! Sorry I didn't wrte back yesterday but I had a
> very long day. 


> At the moment it looks like Sunday is my next free
> day. Perhaps we could go to the Botanic Gardens? i do
> love it there!
> Let me know
> Joss


hey there... have you come up with any idea what time you'd like to visit
the gardens? I just figured out a place I can park the (somewhat
rebuilt and somewhat dented) motorbike and not attract a monster fine.
Do let me know.

I know you managed to wriggle out of it the last time, but I'll bring my
manhole key and a head torch and if you feel really adventuresome we can
wander down to the empty oil reservoir, and if I manage to lift the
(heavy) cover off, we can climb into the dark, dank depths and murder sung
Beach Boys and Elvis tunes in the most acoustically amusing environment I
know. The echo in there has to be heard to be believed. And, come to think
of it, the resonance is pretty good too.

Cheeries...



<predator>


From predator@cat.org.au Fri Apr 18 14:31:54 2003
Date: Sat, 8 Mar 2003 19:38:16 +1100 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: Jocelyn Hungerford <idiotproofau@yahoo.com.au>
Subject: Re: the big pissoffski...



On Sat, 8 Mar 2003, Jocelyn Hungerford wrote:

> Yep. Sorry aboutthe delay. How about 1pm onthe Art
> Gallery steps?

Sounds tractable! Cya there.

> Cheers
> Joss


<predator>


From predator@cat.org.au Fri Apr 18 14:31:54 2003
Date: Mon, 10 Mar 2003 17:06:34 +1100 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: Jocelyn Hungerford <idiotproofau@yahoo.com.au>
Subject: Mistah Wet Blanket!



On Sun, 9 Mar 2003, Jocelyn Hungerford wrote:

> Dear Everyone,
> Please come to a party at my house, 441 Darling St
> Balmain 2041, on the 15th March at 8pm. it will all be
> very genteel this time, I promise. Phone number 9810
> 7609 if any queries
> Love
> Joss

I think I can attend this, though I will let you know if I cannot.

Thank you for the invite, and ahh, thanks for the opportunity to spend
time with you again! 

I salute you for deciding to take some maths on board. I think it is well
worth the wrestling. Perhaps the best way to approach it is to remember
that it is a language, for describing quantities and their relationships,
but it is very persnicketty about the way it must be used. Some of it is
not intuitive, and much of it is not well explained by those who attempt
to teach it. Maths and I have not had a good relationship over the years,
I was forced at coathanger-point to learn it early on and that turned me
off it subsequently for many years. Once I had my own motivation to learn
it, I persisted with it, and it has rewarded me for that, telling me great
things about biology and information, giving me an understanding of the
world I live in. It is an austere, stark language, but very much worth the
effort of learning, so it comes with my recommendation. Don't be ashamed
or scared of the mistakes you make in the process of learning it.


No, I don't think there is much time left for western industrial
civilisation. The corporate TV radio and newsprint publishers are failing
in their duty to inform the public, because they seem unable to emit bad
news without scaring away their advertising revenue.

With respect to oil: a simple introduction is:
http://www.letterfromearth.org/?letter=letterfromearth.01

I finished geology in 1992, along with org.chem. I got my interest in oil
depletion in 1996, when I acquired "decline of the age of oil' by Brian
Fleay. Its boring, sober conclusions are really fucking scary. You know a
bit more now about my (this is a great word) aporia. Predator is perhaps a
misleading name for someone who lives their life as if frozen in the
headlights. 8-)

Some spoken interviews in audio format, on the subject of energy
depletion, are available at http://global.publicmedia.com

Beware the economists.


Since real knowledge comes in large chunks, I'd point you toward
http://www.dieoff.org 

I have read this site in its entirety - it's very large and full of good
stuff. It is not hard to understand most of it but emotionally very
upsetting - the thermodynamic self-evisceration of my own civilisation
does, actually, move me to tears somewhat. I am unable to pick any holes
in it, or its conclusions. 

"I didn't say it would be easy. I only said it would be the truth." -Morpheus.
 

Be well, my friend. 

See ya saturday!

<predator>


From predator@cat.org.au Fri Apr 18 14:31:54 2003
Date: Mon, 10 Mar 2003 17:42:51 +1100 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: idiotproofau@yahoo.com.au


Hi Joss!

I am reluctant to just dump a load of URLs on you, since I am not sure you
will read them - people tend to read stuff which was written specifically
for them 8-)


Wether civilisation collapses or not, I can assume you'll still be writing
stuff on a computer (notebooks are great but have some disadvantages).
Since your computer, your operating system and the software you run (word
processor, etc) are your tools of creation, it really is important to keep
control over them and what they do. Microsoft has other ideas, and I think
they're really dangerous to your control of the tools you use.

http://www.aaxnet.com/editor/edit029.html


It's a long article, but well worth the effort of reading it.

Thanks for returning my copy of Pinker - I really do like that guy's
stuff.


And thanks again for the company, the yummie nosh, and the chance to see
ya again.
 
<predator>




From predator@cat.org.au Fri Apr 18 14:31:54 2003
Date: Tue, 11 Mar 2003 14:14:45 +1100 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: Jocelyn Hungerford <idiotproofau@yahoo.com.au>
Subject: Re: 

On Tue, 11 Mar 2003, Jocelyn Hungerford wrote:

> Thank you. I shall read them when I'm in the mood for
> a bit of doom and gloom.

Which might be never...!

> Are you up for a bit of museum wandering this week,
> perhaps Thursday?

Oh, I think so! I shall have to disappear in the evening on Thursday,
though, since there's an offer of freebie nosh and chatting to dad at a
nice chinese restaurant Thurs night. Gissa ring on ze batphone ce soir
and ve zhall arrange ze rendezvous. 

If you've not been to the AM, I recommend you do have a look.

I've interrogated dad about these parthenogenetic pregnancies which the
dude in the book "Gods DNA" mentioned in support for virgin births. They
have to be chromosomally female, and are tumors, and almost never linger
to the end of the first trimester. I'd be interested to know if this chap
found any male chromosomal DNA on the Turin Shroud. Which wouldn't prove
anything except that some male DNA was on the shroud - and which would
also demonstrate that lots of people would assume it to be proof that
their god was wrapped in this particular bit of fabric.

Other interesting things I found out about are chimera (when you get two
simultaneously fertilised eggs growing up into one human, about 8 of these
documented in the recorded medical literature) and mosaics - where patches
of ourselves are genetically different to other patches of ourselves.
Seems to be common in hermaphrodites. I think probably most of us are
mosaics in subtle ways... like, where one's birthmarks appear would likely
be mosaic in that the promotors for expression of melanin are more active
than elsewhere. I'd suggest you look on the back of your neck for an
example (you have a spotty freckled patch there) but I think that'd be a
bit hard to look at, actually.


> Love
> Joss


Cheeries...

<predator>


From predator@cat.org.au Fri Apr 18 14:31:54 2003
Date: Wed, 12 Mar 2003 12:33:08 +1100 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: Jocelyn Hungerford <idiotproofau@yahoo.com.au>
Subject: Re: 

> Will ring you tomorrow morning-going out in 'four
> minutes' preceisely, my dad tells me!
> Love
> Joss


Hi there... I noticed the faint ringing from under my jacket ha;f an hour
ago, but didn't dig the thing out in time! Sorry about that.
I should be able to respond to the device a bit faster now I am not
dressed up like a nylon fetishist.

Cheeries....

<predator>



From predator@cat.org.au Fri Apr 18 14:31:54 2003
Date: Wed, 12 Mar 2003 12:40:45 +1100 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: Jocelyn Hungerford <idiotproofau@yahoo.com.au>
Subject: Re: 

> Hello,
> Just tried to ring you on ze batphone, no answer so
> how about we meet tomorrow at 11am at the Police and
> Justice Museum? (I'm pretty sure that's what it's
> called)?
> Love
> Joss

[I seem to be having flashbacks from Boris and Natasha cartoons:]
Yiz, zorry avout zat. Yilivin-o'zlock it yis, zen!


Clever! You're spared the necessity of inflicting my
telephonically-distorted voice upon yourself unless of course you
absolutely feel you need to, now zat you have managed to suggest an
agreeable time, bwahahaha!)

 <zedator>


From predator@cat.org.au Fri Apr 18 14:31:54 2003
Date: Fri, 14 Mar 2003 13:34:38 +1100 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: idiotproofau@yahoo.com.au
Subject: good stuff...

Ah, twas good fun to waddle around the museum (I have a new definition of
`tape heads') and stare siriusly at the dog star, and eat yummy food and
have enjoyable conversation with you. 

Gently, gently... when I mentioned I thought there was more of you, it was
not to chastise you! I phrased it that way because I couldn't tell if this
was an artefact of some hard-core hoofing-it you might have done around
England, rather than gobbling various yummies - I think you're just as
proportionally pleasing as I remember you as you were before you left. I'm
hopefully not becoming too touchy about my chassis - now I've had time to
grieve over it (heh) I think grey hair is better than it falling out,
which I suspect it will do eventually. Hey, and you missed the grey hair
on my chin (I cut it pretty short - you have an excuse!)

And good to be held by you again for a bit. 

Now, I might appear at Chez Joss smelling faintly of the deep - the Good
weekend is interviewing the Clan on saturday night at Wooloomooloo. Know
me by my wet sneakers and grotty manhole key. Apols if I am late, these
photographer types (photonics geeks) can spend *ages* playing with the
conditions.

<predator>



From predator@cat.org.au Fri Apr 18 14:31:54 2003
Date: Sat, 15 Mar 2003 14:01:23 +1100 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: Jocelyn Hungerford <idiotproofau@yahoo.com.au>
Subject: Re: good stuff...



Hi Joss!

> dear pred

> Don't worry, I didn't really take offence. Us gurlz can be awfully
> thingy about our weight, despite having taken all sorts of measures to
> deprogram ourselves from such anxieties.

Yeah. I suppose we could change the gravitational constant of the universe
to zero (so we could be weightless) but then the sensitivity would shift
from weight to oh, I dunno, mass, concavity, BMI or something else. 

> I had a really lovely day. Educational and entertaining! I find myself
> wishing I could exist in a few simultaneous realities so we could
> still be lovers. Maybe that'll just have to be the subject for my
> first porno experiment.

I await with interest the products of this line of thought. It'll be at
least as good as the Fermata, I expect.


> I don't mind if you're late tomorrow, just as long as
> I get to see you.

You will. And smell me, too. The faint earthy tang of the sub-terrane.


> Lots of love
> Joss


Yeah! You too...!

<predator>


From predator@cat.org.au Fri Apr 18 14:31:54 2003
Date: Sun, 16 Mar 2003 18:29:23 +1100 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: Jocelyn Hungerford <idiotproofau@yahoo.com.au>
Subject: Re: Waaaahh!


> Dear pred,
> I feel awful, shattered, disintegrated. No doubt due
> to ingesting way too much THC and alcohol last night,
> but also because I can't bear the thought of leaving. 

Ahh... I'm very sorry to hear that you're in this messy state. I'm not
sure that I know how to help you. I'll be at 9546 1605 during some/most of
the next 24h, in blakehurst.

It was actually a pretty good evening, I thought!

Generally when one hates leaving it's because of an attachment to the
place where one already is, and trepidation about what awaits at the
distant spot. I hope it's more of the former.

> But...my friend Michelle said to me the other night:
> you can always come back, but you can't always leave.
> Not sure if this makes sense or not, but intuitively
> it does.

Perhaps if there is anything which shows up the excellent nature of home,
it is leaving it. Home embeds itself within you.

> I am going to miss you horribly. Sorry the goodbye was
> so brief last night but I couldn't bear to make it
> much longer.

I'm getting susprisingly accustomed to your goodbyes, but then I suppose
I have to pay for your delightful welcomes somehow.  

I shut my eyes for longer than usual, you probably noticed. This was so as
not to get an image of you parting singed into my brain.

> In half a mind to ask you whether you are free this evening but
> another goodbye might just make this even harder.

It will. For both of us. Run while you can!

> All my love


> Joss

I will go back to missing you again.

Be well, and take care, beautiful Joss!

Love ya!

<predator>


From predator@cat.org.au Fri Apr 18 14:31:54 2003
Date: Sun, 16 Mar 2003 21:41:55 +1100 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: Jocelyn Hungerford <idiotproofau@yahoo.com.au>
Subject: Re: Waaaahh!



On Sun, 16 Mar 2003, Jocelyn Hungerford wrote:

> Aww, thank you. 

Look out the window, and see the big strong engines, feel the hum of 'em
as they spin up, ready to fling ya down the runway and out of my life for
who knows how long... who needs the traditional wild horses when you have
a wingload of turbofan engines to drag ya away? (They're loud, they
mash you into the seat, but they go fast and dont leave horseshit on the
runway).

> It was a good night. And goth clubs aren't _always_
> like that, fortunately! 

I don't mind too much, _if_ I am prepared for the smoke, noise and
epilepsy-inducing strobe lights; I should have kept my helmet on 8-) ...
whinge whinge, paying ten bucks to discover the state of the club is a bit
nasty (especially for cheap bastards such as m'self). Some of the music
was promising, actually... if only they didn't hammer it into one's skull
at such intensity. I'm gonna go looking for the extended mix of Depeche
Mode's `Any Second Now' from more than 20 years ago. I don't think its
able to be danced to but I could definately chill to it. Or maybe I can go
melancholic and listen to Skinny Puppy's Warlock for a while. (geez, that
club seems to have grabbed me somewhere...).

I discovered there is apparently a species of goth which does nothing but
sit in the corner trying to appear more gothy than other goths. I am
reminded of the rotating heads at the Easter shows decades ago, for some
reason. Maybe because the hair moves, but the bodies are still? 

> I just reread the piece you wrote about White Bay
> after our visit there. Many pleasurable memories!

Heh ... yeah. Stop it, or you'll go blind (from exposure to gratuitous
vocabulary).

8-) 


I'll pop back in with the black pants probably after you're gone. Sophie
is a raucous delight - thanks for the intro.

Have a safe trip, and an interesting year/life, dude. 

> Love
> Joss

*sniff*          <--- on second thoughts, don't. DRAIN STENCH.

Love ya!

<predator>


From predator@cat.org.au Fri Apr 18 14:31:54 2003
Date: Mon, 17 Mar 2003 06:57:46 +1100 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: Jocelyn Hungerford <idiotproofau@yahoo.com.au>
Subject: Re: Corner goths


> Yeah, I didn't understand that. It looked like they
> were trying to have conversations but how this would
> be possible at that volume I don't know.

The first thing that occurred to me when I made it through the black
curtain was, did everyone here use Auslan? Then I thought it'd be useless
at more than 1ft from one's face, given the fog. Strangely isolating.

> Whinge whinge. listen to me, I sound like an oldie. I
> did feel a bit old last night, but then most of the
> people there were probably older than I am. They don't
> make whinging old farts like they used to. Speaking of
> which, did you get asked for ID? 

Nope, and to continue the Freudian vein, I wasn't asked for EGO or
SUPEREGO either. All is not lost, however; they didn't offer me a
pensioner's discount.

> I like your circus head comparison. at least they didn't have their
> mouths open. That's something I've always found very disconcerting
> about those circus heads. The degree to which the mouth is stretched
> combined with the red paint on the lips reminds me of the way women's
> mouths look in pornos when they're giving head.

It's a conspiracy! They have no teeth, either!

It had never occurred to me - maybe because the eyes on the clowns are so
fixed in their expression that I never assumed them to be alive. And I
hadn't looked at enough porn before looking at clowns. I found it was kind
of amusing to look upwards at a steep angle into said mouths and discover
the heads were empty. The lips had this hard metal edge incorporated into
the fibreglass so the mouths didn't split or wear down from having
millions of ping pong balls fed into them.


> It's not an unsexy look on the right person but a little strange
> accompanied by full clown drag.

I am sure that, with the right silicone rubberware, lube, changes to
the head-oscillation machinery, a slight vacuum, gentle heating and a
fresh coat of paint, the mass automation of head jobs can proceed apace,
thereby making circus sideshows somewhat more popular than perhaps the
designers of hollow clown heads had ever imagined! Probably the cops would
take the uh, donations and compile a database of them for forensic
purposes later? I cant imagine how such a db might be useful unless they
are hunting a person with a penchant for orally raping actual human
clowns... hmmm... might there be a novel in that somewhere?

Would such a device free people from the repetition, lockjaw, and other
occupational hazards of performing fellatio? Then again, given that every
other domestic tool has just become another means to pile more work on
women, I would predict that women would be given the clean-up job.
Probably also because any bloke who got near it just couldn't resist a
free head job from a machine which just couldn't say no, and would never
get around to cleaning or maintaining it.

> My plan for the remaining hours in the country is to procrastinate
> about packing some more, and lie on the couch watching videos of Queer
> as Folk and Buffy until my eyes fall out. This way I don't have to
> think about leaving. Brilliant!

Be pre-emptive - procrastinate NOW!

Heh. If your eyes fall out you'll miss the in-flight moophie.

My parents are in Brissie for a day, I'm minding their dog at their place
in Blakehurst. Funny, we got a call at 5:40 this morning, dad was in the
shower, mum was on the loo so I answered the phone assuming it'd be you.
Nope - it's Maggie the stalker, and I misheard her faintly English
inflection thinking it was you, and so I identified myself as Mr Predator.
She knows I am here now, so I'm in for a pile of stupid nuisance calls all
day, which I will probably answer. So if you do dial here before you
leave, please dial, let it ring three times, then hang up; then dial again
(I'll answer it if preceeded by three ring-outs). Please identify yourself
immediately if I pick it up. My batphone is in Annandale! WooHoo, stupid
'phone intrigues!




> Love
> Joss


Love ya!


<predator>


From predator@cat.org.au Fri Apr 18 14:31:54 2003
Date: Mon, 17 Mar 2003 13:09:42 +1100 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: Jocelyn Hungerford <idiotproofau@yahoo.com.au>
Subject: Re: Stalkers



On Mon, 17 Mar 2003, Jocelyn Hungerford wrote:

> Yikes! Who is this Maggie and why is she stalking you?
> (I presume it's a woman and not an errant magpie.)

Yes, it's not a cranky magpie: Rumble says it well (excerpt below).


-----------------------------------------------------------
Date: Mon, 28 Oct 2002 14:53:37 +0000
From: Rev Simon Rumble <simon@rumble.net>
To: predator@cat.org.au, maffew@cat.org.au, andy@cat.org.au
Subject: The Maggie problem

Hiya guys.  I call these geek-guru conference to order.

You may be aware of this problem, but I'd like your advice on its
solution, technical or social.  I'm contacting you directly because
I'd rather discuss it in private first and then work out the
solution.

Maggie, my mother-in-law, is a lonely woman living in Wollongong and
with a number of mental health issues.  For whatever reason, she has
latched on to <predator> as, variously, an object of affection and
someone who is supposedly harrassing her.  In her strange worldview
she seems to think that pred has "hacked" her computer and is sending
her pornography and harrassment.

Some background: Maggie has in the past harrassed others including her
ex-husband, to the point of him having an Apprehended Violence Order
(AVO) slapped on her.  The harrassment in that case tended to come out
of long binges of mental illness and alcohol.

Anyway, for whatever reason she's fixated on pred and is conspiring to
make his life hell.  She sends him emails direct, which is easily
solved with some procmail hackery.

Recently she has escalated this to sending messages, accusing him of
all sorts of horrible things, to mailing lists he belongs to.  It
seems she's trawling around with a search engine for references to him
and blasting out hateful emails to anyone who will listen.

Most of the list admins involved (and Cat's virtual receptionist) know
the story and quietly delete the diatribes.  However, mud has a
tendency to stick if enough is thrown.  While it may be blatantly
untrue, I'd rather pred didn't start getting whispers and suspicious
glances.

Technically, we could solve this quite quickly and easily, on Cat
machines at least.  Procmail all her rants to /dev/null.  Getting that
implemented, however, would require a discussion and consensus and I'm
not sure that solves the sticky mud problem.  Regardless, we can't
solve it for anything outside Catalyst.

When I get home in December, I'm going to have a LONG discussion with
Maggie about this.  I'm not sure how useful that will be in her
delusional state but at least, perhaps, I can at least prove to her
that her machine hasn't been hacked.  Mabye even implement some spam
filters so she doesn't get the spam which she seems to think is coming
from pred.  At this point I'll have access to the source, so I could
potentially implement some outbound filtering, though if Maggie ever
worked out I was doing it I'd become part of the great worldwide
conspiracy of pred.

So I'm open to suggestions.  Her emailing pred directly isn't causing
any problems.  The mud slinging, however, is quite disturbing and not
something I'd wish on anyone.

Finally, thanks to pred for taking all this in such good humour.  I
think I would have lost patience LONG ago if I were on the receiving
end of this.  I owe you a large number of beers.

-- 
Rev Simon Rumble <simon@rumble.net>
www.rumble.net
Send email with subject "send key pub" for public key.

 "The ability to quote is a serviceable substitute for wit."
- Somerset Maugham
----------------------------------------------------------

Now, I wouldn't worry about it particularly except these calls are to my
parent's place, where I am frequently not. So they get annoyed by her
instead of me being annoyed by her (well, directly anyway).

> I would never call you at 5.40am. It's very, very rare
> if ever that I'm awake at that time of day, and
> certainly I'm never in the mood for phone calls before
> at least two cups of coffee.

Sure... I'd assume you'd never call at that hour, unless you're doing
something totally requiring of a call (you know, existential crises and so
on) which I can't guess in advance from the ringing noise 8-)

> Hope you have a great day with Chloe.

Ah, she's a pleasant doggie, but not a scintillating conversationalist.
She becomes very expressive if she thinks there's a sausage able to be
wheedled out of the nearest humans, but otherwise defaults to sleeping on
the floor. 

I hope you have a great day with Buffy. 

Off I go to Turella to sniff vapourised lead and listen for tones on naked
strands of copper, whilst perched in an awkward corner of a cieling
cavity.

> Love
> Joss

We're cramming in more email into this day than we've exchanged for
ages. What's on your mind?

Love ya -

<predator>


From predator@cat.org.au Fri Apr 18 14:31:54 2003
Date: Mon, 17 Mar 2003 21:07:26 +1100 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: Jocelyn Hungerford <idiotproofau@yahoo.com.au>
Subject: off again


It occurred to me, as I poured a home-brew fermented migraine down my
neck, that I serve out my existance here, hiding from what most
people consider to be a life. I don't know if this is true or not but I
can't quite shake it. Perhaps I have become too comfortable, hiding from
the great responsibilities that people walk into, with banks, employers,
each other, and the long weary carpet of time rolls under me nonetheless.

I feel somehow I have to bow my head to you, when I think of you taking
these big, scary, inconvenient steps around the planet. You have done a
lot of wild stuff, and you have not been defeated, it seems your will to
go out an' do more big stuff has not been broken. I feel in some ways, I
have. My life is a retreat from an insanity I percieve to be around me. I
was faintly shocked when I heard it come out of my mouth, I don't know if
I was with you or not, when I said, `fools rush in and get all the good
shit'. I'm not convinced you're foolish, but I still hope you get all the
good shit. 

I am also sure I have much yet to learn from you, but it cannot be
rushed. It will be revealed when I'm good and unready, as always. I
shouldn't claim to be impatient, I don't even own a calendar, and if I did
I wouldn't want to look at it.

I am snotty again. I will indulge myself with the idea that it's a microbe
of some sort.  I am suffering in a wreathe of military-strength dog farts
(Thanks, Chloe. Here, try my socks) and I should get away from this
keyboard and open the window, listen to the fruit bats eviscerating the
mangoes, look at the stars.


May you go well, Jocelyn Last Name. It's entirely a pleasure to know you.


<predator>


From predator@cat.org.au Fri Apr 18 14:31:54 2003
Date: Wed, 19 Mar 2003 15:27:06 +1100 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: Jocelyn Hungerford <idiotproofau@yahoo.com.au>
Subject: Re: off again



On Tue, 18 Mar 2003, Jocelyn Hungerford wrote:

> Hey pred,

> Maybe you are hiding, but there's a good reason for it and when it's
> time to stop hiding you'll know, I'm sure. If that time come. It seems
> to me you have a good life, though not one I'd really want to live
> (too much work for too much mould). Friends, people who love you,
> intellectual interests, email buddies to bemoan the state of the world
> with, a stalker... (Shit-I am sorry that my indication of existential
> crises caused you to answer the phone thereby alerting the nutter to
> your presence there. SHe sounds baaad. These people can be dangerous
> so don't take it too lightly.)

yeah, I do occasionally convince myself of these great things. Food,
electrickery, health care, a priceless education, clean water, a washing
machine which usually works, free accom... I reckon I do have it pretty
good.

Maggie is problematic in several ways. Provided none of them are violent,
she'll be fine.

> Anyway. I used to have a pessimistic viewpoint about the state of the
> earth, the people in it, etcetera, fairly similar to what I think
> yours is. All based on fact and very logical, there's no doubting
> that.

Mmmm. Great minds... uh...

> However, with my bent for taking everything to its logical extreme, I
> used this philosophy to come to the conclusion that I too was
> worthless, a blight on the planet, a wasteful sucker of resources who
> by rights should not really exist.

Sure. I couldn't end it there, though. People such as ourselves, who
(correctly in my view) come to this conclusion, are faced with the fact
that there were powerful processes at work which did in fact make sure
that we came to exist, and *stayed* that way, too. What were these forces?
Two humans shagged - a tendancy built into us at the molecular level - and
one of them brought me to term - significant amounts of her body were
deliberately configured to enable that to happen. There existed a religion
which prevented them from eradicating me from the world before I was old
enough to significantly scourge it with my pollution and resource demands,
or to even be aware of myself. Humanity, the vertebrates, animals... it
appears there are no rights to say we should or should not be here, it
just happens that we are, (for the moment). The geological record is
littered with the corpses of other organisms which by rights should not
have existed either, and eventually this became the case, wiped out by
astronomical capriciousness embodied in a few thousand tons of incoming
rock, or whatever. Smart enough to avoid our own demise yet incapable  of
implementing it. Slaves to the indifferent genes which encode us.

I look around at every other life form, and observe that they too could be
similarly classified as wasteful resource suckers, selfishly acquiring
materials and energy, at the expense of their neighbors, for their own
replication. The whole *ecosystem* does it. Things live on, and in, me,
inhabiting my every nook and cranny, integrated even into my own cellular
DNA. Frightful bludgers the lot of them 8-) Perhaps I should put it on my
c.v. : habitat for microbes. Perhaps, actually, I should write a c.v...!
Or urm.. *they* should write it.

> Now in some respects this is true, ie as a member of the human race I
> am vermin, however it's not easy to reconcile with a functioning
> mental state, with life, with pursuing whatever happiness is
> available. It's all too common for brainy idealists like you and me to
> end up suicidal wrecks or homicidal maniacs (eg Hitler, only I don't
> think he was that brainy).

I think we'll never get the straight dope on why mr Hitler and his
country's circumstances meshed so horribly. You are certainly right about
the difficulty of keeping sane in the face of the actions of the great
plague of which we are component members. I take refuge in the observation
that even if there's no plan, then Darwinian selection will not be fooled,
and perhaps really I am simply weepy that there will be no future
historians to read the remnants which we leave in the rocks. 

> Well, fuck it. I've been cursed/blessed with life and I either have to
> use it properly and enjoy it, or end it. (Interesting, I've just been
> reading Interview with a Vampire and these themes come up quite a lot,
> unsurprisingly, as they do in Frankenstein. Oedipal rage, shaking the
> fist at the parent/creator: 'How dare you give me life!!' etc.)

The odds of refraining from inflicting life upon their offspring were
rather heavily stacked against them, don't you think? 

Well, there we are - who is to even know what constitutes the proper use
of a body? Enjoying life in it until we destroy it as a result? Preserving
it carefully so we get to look at it degenerate around us?

I might have mentioned before, if I ended it I wouldn't be able to hang
around and see what happened next. So I linger, not always able to read
another page but never quite able to put the book down, as it were.

> And one of the best ways to keep curious, stay alive to the world etc
> is to do big scary challenging things that break you apart. I could
> have refrained from working on moral grounds for the rest of my life,
> spent it living with my parents in Balmain...yikes!

Yeehp! D'accord. Et mon aussi!

> But there's a lot about the world, people, relationships that you just
> don't find out without empirical research. So that's why I do what I
> do. Better than slashing your wrists!

I suspect once one is convinced of the interesting-ness of other people,
this approach becomes easier. 

> As for what's on my mind...I miss you. Miss talking to you and
> touching you. And I'm becoming so, so conscious of how easy it is to
> lose people you love if you don't make an effort. So this is my
> effort.

And it's appreciated, and you have my thanks for it. It took a long time
to remove your plait from my mop.

> Anyway, the jetlag is probably making me witter on.
> Bath and sleep time, I think.

Remember to pull the plug before drifting off in the tub.

Glad you made it. Fare thee well, then.

> Love
> Joss


Lurv...
<predator>


From predator@cat.org.au Fri Apr 18 14:31:54 2003
Date: Sat, 22 Mar 2003 14:16:02 +1100 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: Jocelyn Hungerford <idiotproofau@yahoo.com.au>
Subject: Re: PS



On Fri, 21 Mar 2003, Jocelyn Hungerford wrote:

> Dear pred,
> This will be short as I have to clean the flat before
> the real estate agent comes round. 

A strange life, you travel thousands of kms in order to ... clean the flat
(chip-shop)? I hope you're not doing it on your own. The advanced mold
technology in our squat messes itself up, but we specifically configured
it to do that of its own accord, and we have no real estate agent.

Wooo, I love the stench of burning washing machine innards in the morning.

> But it's funny. You say you have things to learn from me but I am
> continually made aware that it's the other way around.  

You provide circumstances in which I learn things about myself and about
you too, and I think these would otherwise not appear, and I would thusly
fail to learn from them. I learn about aspects of the human relationships
into which I wouldn't otherwise have a clue about how to enquire. And
often I don't know this until much time has subsequently elapsed.

> You're one of the most considerate people I know, despite being able
> to insist on your independence and your own way of living your life.
> It's quite a combination. I think you're fantastic.

I can't come up with a sensible reply to this, and nor can I deflect it, 
so if you'll permit me, I'll retreat to denial. My ego thanks you for it, 
nonetheless 8-)



> Love
> Joss
 


Lurghv to you too

<predator>


From predator@cat.org.au Fri Apr 18 14:31:54 2003
Date: Mon, 24 Mar 2003 16:15:55 +1100 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: Jocelyn Hungerford <idiotproofau@yahoo.com.au>
Subject: Not taught in biomedical engineering:


Hi Joss... 

I hope this presses a few buttons in the budding porn author residing
within you. Who but an information theorist would have ever thought of
doing this?

http://cat.org.au/~predator/four-bobs-worth.txt



Cheeries....

<predator>

