From predator@cat.org.au Sat Oct 12 17:34:15 2002
Date: Sat, 12 Oct 2002 17:27:58 +1000 (EST)
From: predator@cat.org.au
To: predator@cat.org.au

> Dear Pred
> Re: Use of publicly funded computer facilities at FoE Sydney
 
> Now that you have an administration role at FoE Sydney I am notifying you of 
> the information in the attached statutory declaration.

Thanks for the letter. Leaving the document on the table is generally
adequate. I have been known to be absent for months at a time, however, so
mail might not be read rapidly.

FoE is no longer blessed with your membership. Much has changed in your
absence. Your claim above to knowledge of any administrative role I might
have is not therefore one you, from a position outside the organisation, 
can reasonably assert.

> I don't know if you will dismiss it, but let me say the attached statement 
> indicates unethical activity which in the case of the more repulsive 
> material also crosses the line to a breach of criminal law.

I assume that you refer to claim 2) made in the attached photocopy of an
undated statutory declaration. This is not an original document, and the
back of it is not signed (as required) so I'm not in a position to give it
any weight. Nevertheless I have not dismissed it.

The attached statement does indicate unethical activity; which is,
specifically, you making the statement at all, insofar as it is libellous
in its nature and makes claims which are, due to actions you claim to have
performed therein, extremely difficult to prove or disprove.
  
> When I held your position I did not want the legal exposure to that
> activity - as a manager of those facilities - 

Unfortunately, as discoverer of the (alleged) criminal activity, you were
probably incumbered with a duty to notify the relevant authorities
immediately, who would then investigate the claim. You did not. That you
firstly deleted the alleged material, then permitted several months to
elapse before declaring its discovery in the statutory declaration, could
work significantly against you were you ever to bring a claim against the
person you allege possessed the material. 

> or the responsibility to intervene. 

According to the (photocopied) statutory declaration you did in fact
intervene: According to claim 3)

"I was shocked and disgusted and deleted the illegal material."

This amounts to destruction of evidence of a crime. A gentleman of your
jurisprudential training could not fail to immediately understand the
significance of this act. 
 
I have observed another recent statutory declaration of yours in which you
claim to be a legal practitioner in NSW as at Oct 9 2002. According to the
NSW Law Society you have not been licensed to practise in that capacity in
NSW since 1992. This misleading declaration is itself made on a sheet
which mentions penalties apply for making false or misleading statements.

These sorts of errors, ambiguities and omissions make it difficult for
people to take these declarations with the seriousness they typically
deserve. 

> You will have to do as you see fit.

If claim 3) is correct, there is nothing I can do, for any evidence for
claim 2) has been destroyed. There is therefore no proven reason for me or
anyone else to suspect Mr Kanaar has done anything to validate your claim
2). 

In any case, my role at FoE is not the same as your role at FoE was.

> I hope that we can have civil relations despite the difficulty of the 
> situation.

Yes. If you're up for a quiet beer someplace, let me know. 

My recommendation is that you apologise to Len for making this greivous
claim, cease enriching your solicitor Mr Tees for doing a job you could
probably do perfectly well yourself, and stop wasting everybody
concerned's time, money and effort with this guff.


As for the attachment below:

> Michael Martin
> Martin, Hill Group
> Real estate agents, Rockdale
> 12th October 2002
> By fax

<deleted> 

I cannot rely on the authenticity of the transcript of the fax included in
the message you sent, since electronic data is tampered with, faked (etc)  
very easily. This vulnerability unfortunately also applies to this email
too, which, of course, is not authenticated either.

Please note that if the influx of time-wasting correspondance to my
email exceeds my threshold, your email address will be added to my
auto-delete list. 



