The economics and psychology of long-term trespass.
<predator>, 2002

Dedicated to Key-Zero

This document is intended to be instructive to security managers. 

In order to inform them of what it is they are up against, they 
must be shown the logical workings of the recreational trespasser. 
It does not aim to instruct persons in the act of trespass. It shows 
how it is done so as to enable security personnel to take steps to 
prevent it. Actual prevention is an exercise left up to the 
inventiveness of the reader.

"Sed quis custodiet ipsos Custodes?" 
(But who is to guard the guards themselves?) - Juvenal

"Security is a state of mind." - Key-Zero


A koan - Zen and the art of safecracking.
-----------------------------------------

A safe manufacturing company invited Key-Zero to a factory meeting at
which the first of their new mass-production safes was to be demonstrated.
It was, they told him, a breakthrough in safe technology, because, for the
most part, the safe was not made of metal - it used advanced
fire-resistant polymers loaded with materials to make it resistant to
drilling and cutting. It was lighter than equivalent safes, easier to
install and cheaper to make. It wasn't metal, so welding angle iron to it
to enable hydraulic forcing of the door was no longer an option. They had
worked on it for years, investing millions in materials research, tooling
and construction.

Key-Zero was a thoughtful man and safecracker of some note. The company
wanted the opinion of someone respected in the industry. The executive
officer wanted to throw down a challenge to a skilled acquirer of access.
So he invited Key-Zero to the meeting.

They assembled in the yard of the factory, and demonstrated that the safe
could not be drilled (bits broke off), cut into (cutting tools blunted or
clogged), or opened with a flame (it refused to melt - the composite
quickly distributed the localised heat). They showed that the safe
could not be filled with water then cooled so that the expanding ice would
push the door off - a nearby deep-freeze (here's one we prepared earlier!)
demonstrated this nicely. The safe ignored solvents and corrosives,
induction heating and harsh language.

The EO proudly told the assembled locksmiths and safe technicians - nobody
without the combination could get into the safe. He confidently asked the
crowd - does anyone else have any other ideas? Thermic lances and
explosives were suggested but they'd destroy the contents of the safe in
the process, which of course would defeat the purpose of getting into it
in the first place. A suitable industrial cutting laser or entrained
abrasive profile cutter was unlikely to ever be brought to attack a safe.

Key-Zero said that if the company paid for the cost of the demonstration,
and gave him one hour, he would get into the safe using a broom. The EO
snorted with contempt - and accepted the challenge immediately. They
agreed to come back in an hour and went to lunch.

Key-Zero discreetly dialed a pipe-freezing company. A janitor's broom was
duly procured. The Freez-it utility van duly arrived and unloaded its
cargo.

Fed, and bemused, they reconvened in the factory. Beside Key-Zero stood a
large Dewar flask of liquid nitrogen. He donned gloves and a visor and
hosed liquid nitrogen onto the safe. Clouds of vapour chased along the
ground, seeking the nearby drain, and the safe became very, very cold. The
concrete spalled from contraction, sending tiny flakes of itself
skittering around the room. Key-Zero kept this up for ten minutes or so,
until the large Dewar flask became empty. The remaining N2 boiled off, and
the safe sat there, making strange crunching noises. It had glaciated to
the cement below it, and frondy snow crystals grew upon on it as they
watched.

Freez-it collected their Dewar and drove off. The safe, trying to obey the
laws of physics, had imperceptibly started to contract. Invisible
fractures audibly propagated themselves through its walls as the
differential contraction stresses mounted between the composite's
different materials. It was already broken - its parts simply hadn't been
separated yet.

Key-Zero retrieved the broom and asked people to cover their eyes.
Swinging around in a wide arc, he hit the safe with the broom. There was a
loud, strangely high-pitched cracking sound. Cooled below its Curie point,
and thereby embrittled, the polymer safe shattered like dirty glass. Which,
technically, in its induced state of cryogenesis, it was.

The broom was undamaged, so Key-Zero swept the conchoidal, hackly-edged,
glistening fragments into a pile. They left trails of condensate on the
concrete. The assembled crowd dispersed with a low murmur.

The EO moved to pick the supercooled metal locking mechanism out of the
detritus. Key-Zero let him, fully aware that it would burn the EO's
unprotected fingers, and kept sweeping.

Key-Zero did not turn around when the screams came. 


When he got out of hospital, the one-time EO had to change his career. He
had considerable knowledge of safes and locks but nobody would employ him
after the "cool it" story got around.

However, in his current line of self-employment, to which he finds himself 
strangely well suited, he actually does things himself. And he is 
successful. He leaves no fingerprints.



Meta-trespass. 
-------------- 

Every trespasser is already equipped with the most dangerous security
penetration system ever devised - the human brain. Fortunately for those
of us required to maintain site security, they usually don't use it. 

It should be understood that trespass is not a game played against locks
and alarms, it is a game played against the psychology of the security
staff, and the locks and alarms they employ to save them from doing their
job themselves. Their locks, alarms and other security devices reflect
that psychology and also represent a control panel built into that
psychological framework, accessible to those intending trespassers
interested therein. Manipulation of locks and alarms is the way these
attitudes can be changed, giving rise to a security configuration which
functions in favour of the trespasser.

The successful recreational trespasser appreciates immediately that
the time spent in learning to understand the psychology of long-term
trespass will assist them to acquire access to whatever space they might
desire, retain this access once acquired, and more importantly, keep this
access a secret from people who desire to prevent it.


Locks are information systems
-----------------------------------
Locks can be interrogated to provide information concerning the vulnerabilities
of the broader system of which they are a functional part. 

Keys contain information embedded in their topology and broach. Locks contain
the information to sample the information in the key and make the following
decisions: 
 - should I read this key (will the key fit)
 - if yes, will I open for this key (is the lock coded for this key)?

The cylinder of a given lock can tell you a lot about its fellows.

In the dark history of locks, there were also locks which would captivate
a key which could be inserted but which was incorrect. This would enable the
keyholder to be matched to the key. However, this is incommon in present
day locking systems.


The perils of redundancy
________________________________

Locks keyed to one key will often open to other keys very similar to the
intended key. They exhibit some tolerance in their sampling. Lock picking
evades the first question since the item(s) it is reading are not actually
keys, instead they are meta-keys, which exhibit the properties of many
keys but which are not actually keys themselves. The true skill of
lock picking lies in the lock picker's ability to interrogate the lock to
determine how it is best satisfied, instead of the lock interrogating the
key and satisfying itself. Methodologies of lock picking are beyond the
scope of this article - see texts in the catalog of www.loompanics.com.

There are millions of extremely similar locks. Locks are one of the least
used but most commonplace teaching aids available. A lock will teach you
about how to lock things, which you probably knew already and is the
simple lesson most people seek. What a lock will also teach you, provided
you know how to ask it, is the weaknesses of its millions of very similar
relatives.

When the student is ready, the Master will appear.


Some Background on vulnerabilities of modular locks and Keyed-Alike Systems
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The objective of the long-term recreational trespasser is to train the owners 
to be sick of spending money on locks which are either continually stolen,
destroyed or rendered inoperable. In this way the trespasser can train the
naieve security personnel to instead spend money on locks which are adequate
for the trespasser's purposes as well as their own.

Dwell on that previous sentence. What the lock owner wants is not to keep
everyone out, but rather to _think_ they can keep everyone out. They will
pay for this comforting delusion, but only up to a point.

When one lock is said to be keyed-alike to another lock, both locks can be
opened by the same key.

Particular installations will have multiple doors, all of which will
possess locks. The site security personnel will not want to carry around a
large heavy keyring with keys for all of these locks, nor will they wish
to search through the keys when they wish to open a particular lock. Thus,
as the number of doors increases so too does the probability that the
locks will all be "keyed-alike" to provide equal access everywhere or
master keyed to provide possessors of different keys various levels of
access via the same locks. 

Naturally, for this convenience, they pay a price in reduced security.
Diversity of locks actually improves robustness of security across a site,
since attacks specific to one or two types of lock will not necessarily
work on other types; however, security personnel ignorant of the nature of
the security mindset will go for convenience instead of security more
often than not.


Keying-alike, or master-keying, or adding secure cylinders to multiple
locks, historically was a process involving considerable manual labour
which also left telltale linishing marks on the side of the lock body. 
Locks have been developed to make this process easier and faster for the
locksmith, also making it cheaper for, but opaque to, the user. Locks were
built which could have their guts removed as a module, in contrast to the
old locks in which the guts was tightly integrated into the
precision-machined brass of the lock body.

Along with this fall in cost came a fall in security. Keyed-alike locks
became more common. The users are not told of the increased vulnerabilty
intrinsic to the duplicity of their locks.

Information theory treats copied information with identical significance
to the original from which the copy was generated. This means a
keyed-alike lock can be borrowed from a secluded location or a location
where the lock is rarely used, a key made for it, copies made of these
keys, the copies tested in the borrowed lock, and the lock then returned
to service; the great payoff is that access gained to multiple doors for
which the key is the same. The recreational trespasser can therefore walk
confidently up to doors never seen or examined and stand an excellent
chance of minimal access time-delay.

On large sites this key is often able to open dozens of locks, so the
payoff to effort ratio is considerable, which means the skilled long term
trespasser has a great incentive to illegally key into the lock system on
the site of interest. Also, as the number of vulnerable locks increases on
a site, the management's resistance to the cost of having to pay for the
re-keying of all of them increases too, so there is sometimes considerable
inertia in the system even though its vulnerability has been discovered.
Management are likely to think that the unauthorised possessor of a key -
if discovered - only knows that the key works in one lock and is unaware
of the key's true significance for all the other locks it opens; in all
likelihood the unauthorised possessor will never be asked if they are
aware of this, since to do so would reveal the system-wide vulnerability
to the person being questioned and the management just doesn't want to know.

It is of interest that possession of an unauthorised key will, if
discovered, also cause considerable mistrust of the security
employees, who will then subsequently be blamed if material goes missing
from the sites they guard. A typical site-security management thought
process about two blameless security guards goes like so:

"I am suspicious of Manfred and Biff. They are the only guards on this
site with a key to all the locks. Last week Manfred caught some Joe Blow
who it turns out has the same key as Manfred and Biff do. How could that
happen? Well, obviously Manfred or Biff must have given a copy of the key
to Joe Blow and is working with one them. Manfred says he didn't, and Biff
says he didn't. One of them must be lying. I can trust Manfred because
Manfred turned the trespasser in so it must be Biff. I'd better give Biff
the sack. Better, I'll sue him for conspiracy to commit a crime."

Innocent (!) guards then lose their employment becase it never enters the
management's heads to think their locks are being cracked. 


The old style of rekeyed lock had to be impressioned the hard way since
there was no way to access the cylinder mechanism which avoided any
obvious metalworking. The more modern locks designed for easy re-keying
are widely used, and once picked open, their modular cylinder can be
dropped out and carefully filed along the groove where the outer cylinder
sleeve meets the vertical wall of the pin/spring gallery, until the shear
line becomes visible. When this is attained, a working key can be easily
filed from an appropriate blank, copied, copies tested, and the lock
re-assembled and returned to service for subsequent convenient access.


1) The Broken Window Effect and Door Closer tampering
------------------------------------------------------

Some operators of "Secured" infrastructure desirable for trespass will let
little things stay broken, and this represents a window into the way they
think about their operation. If many little things stay broken, they will
tend to stay that way for a long time, since the logistics of repairing
the cumulative damage becomes an unwieldy task, so nothing gets fixed.
Holes which remain in fences for more than a day or so, latent broken
windows, etc, indicate that whoever operates the premises is probably not
paying any particular attention to lock-based access control either - they
think it's beyond their effort.

For access purposes it's hard to beat a door. Windows, roof cavities
(etc) are all a nuisance. So how to acquire an open door? 

First, exploit the fact that other people can be expected to open them and
will then rely on unintelligent machinery to keep them closed. Fire escapes and
carpark entrances where smokers hang around while smoking (look for butts
and ashtrays to indicate likely areas) are particularly prone to this.

One can enter a fire escape and go from floor to floor and find the fire
escape doors are all closed. They open into the fire escape, and usually
there's a door closer installed on the inside of the fire escape. The
long-term trespasser can exploit the access to automatic door closer
mechanism on the top of the door, to enable the door to be left open after
someone else uses it.

There are two ways this is done. First, the elbow hinge pin is removed 
and the length of the threadded telescoping adjustment arm is changed 
(usually shortened), then the elbow pin is replaced. In this way the door 
will not actually be able to close over, but it will appear to do so. This 
takes about two minutes to do and requires nothing much more than a
screwdriver. Door closers can even be removed outright for subsequent study 
elsewhere, or similar items purchased commercially for the determination of
trespass-friendly failure modes.

Alternatively, on those hydraulic door closers which support the function,
the screw which determines how hard the door slams, is adjusted to its minimum
setting at which the door will likely not close and latch, though it will close
over, giving the appearance of closure.

Sometimes, the more inept trespasser will adjust it so much the screw falls
out. The door closer will spill oil and fail to ever work properly again. 
Door closer oil spills are a sure sign the closers are being hamstrung, since
they almost never spill it on their own. They're generally not expecting the 
spillage  either, so will wear the oil on their clothing for a while.

Another modification on door-closer operated doors, which is often never 
noticed, is partial unscrewing of one screw (of the several available) on
one of the door hinges, on the jamb side of the hinge. This protruding screw
will take all the closing force of the door as it approaches closure so the
door won't actually close though the door closer will try its best to make it 
look that way. This won't last very long since the leverage is significant
enough to distort the jamb or strip the screw, so doing this for more than 
one screw will help prevent the door from latching.

Those trespassers aware that the security mindset can generally expect these
failures to be blamed on manufacturers of the doorclosers or the people who
install them. Staff can generally be assumed to be unaware of these
inducible failure modes and uninterested in them anyway since they
generally already have key access.

Additional cheap'n'simple, nearly invisible additions can be made,
including the attachment of layers of slam-noise-minimising adhesive
neoprene tape to the part of the door jamb against which the door slams.
Normally one layer is used but in this case the trespasser would apply enough
to stop the lock bolt from latching. And, it's natural to find this material
installed on door jambs anyway so nothing looks suspicious.


2) optimisation of locks for long-term recreational trespass.
-------------------------------------------------------------

Long-term, high-effort measures are only really worthwhile to people with
an interest in prolonged periods of repeated periodic access; acquiring
long term access can be a nuisance to implement via these methods,
nevertheless they can and do pay off. They fall broadly into two
categories, reprogramming the locks, and reprogramming the owner via the
locks.

Reprogramming the owners.
-------------------------

Locks are purchased items. The purchasers get what they pay for - cheap
locks provide little security, good locks cost more money and are more
secure, great locks cost lots of money and are additionally secure.
However, the law of diminishing marginal returns states that while a $50
dollar lock is at least twice as good as a $25 lock, a $500 dollar lock
will probably provide equivalent security to a $1000 lock (if such a lock
exists).

Cost and security increase when the lock is physically manufactured to
higher security levels, with heavier shackle or body, or incorporating a
secure keying system. However, because of this cost - and because they
don't know how to justify it to our bosses, who are generally also
ignorant of the truly informational nature of keyed-alike, master keyed,
and modular lock systems with their intrinsic hackability - site security
personnel are reluctant to purchase expensive locks which represent a
significant access barrier. Sometimes, however, they do cough up the
bucks. They must be trained not to do this in the long term.

Locks do not, contrary to popular opinion, restrict access. What they do is
delineate a length of time which is required to elapse before access is given.
If you let them, the locks decide how long this period will be, and the period
will be very long or very short. Taking advantage of the massively parallel
neural net onboard the standard human chassis enables the trespasser to change
the duration in their favour. Why? Locks are immortal, the urban trespasser is
not, life is short, and things worth placing under lock and key are generally
worth one's interest.

A lock presents the trespasser with a point at which to begin training the
owner/operator of the lock in the direction the trespasser wants them to
take. The long term trespasser wants the security personnel to be in
either of the following two states: blissfully unaware of their repeated
access using a lock they own, or sick of paying for expensive replacements
to destroyed expensive locks, opting instead for cheaper ones amenable to
trespasser-friendly reconfiguration. It might take years of occasional 
going out and messing with their hardware, but, to quote Chopper, 
"Battles are won by men who are willing to fight them for a long time."

From the security officer's point of view, suddenly when you discover that 
your sorta-OK quality replacement lock stays on, unmolested, that's when 
the trespasser has truly gained access, because you think, with relief, the
lock destruction problem has finally gone away and you think you are secure,
but the lock is owned by the trespassers. Security is a state of mind into 
which security staff can be artifically massaged.




Reprogramming the locks.
-------------------------
Long term trespassers wish to reprogram the locks to recognise their
request for access. They either do this by using the lock to give them the
key (by impressioning, beyond the scope of this article, or other means)
or by configuring the lock to accept many more keys.

Where possible, when a lock is removed for remote keying, impressioning
(etc)  work, this will be done and the lock returned to service as quickly
as possible so we owners never know it was missing, and the lock will be
taken off in such a way as enables it to be returned to service leaving
the door in a locked state. After all, once the key for the lock is
possessed access delay is minimal, and it is better, from the trespasser's
viewpoing, that the owner knows nothing.

When a long-term trespasser is faced with a padlock they have several
options available.

a) Take it for subsequent key impressioning and return to service. While it is
preferable to pick the lock and take it, other acqusition methods exist, in
particular, the usual hacksaw / massive leverage methods can also liberate the
lock. They prefer, where possible, to cut a link from a chain, which will not
be missed when the lock is returned to service after reprogramming, as opposed
to say, chopping segments of pipe from the gate, which is subsequently
noticable.

b) Pick it and discard it. This has nuisance value for the operators of
the premises, it only gives away the trespasser's presence and makes the
security personnel buy a new and different lock (which, if they do, tells
the trespasser you're interested).  It's simpler for them to pick and
replace it, since if they picked it before, they can pick it again.
Inspection of the keyway might reveal that there are coloured (not naked
brass) pins inside the lock, which tells them the lock has been modified
and the effort of making a key for it is likely to be worthwhile.  In
general an open lock will leave the site with the trespasser, unless they
think its possession might incriminate them later.


c) open it, partially gut it on-site, reinstall it - "Easy Pickings". 

Once opened, a Master lock can rapidly be reconfigured to a state of much
lower security. This is done by using a small Allen key to take the
cylinder out of the lock body, and hacksawing away three of the five pins,
furthest away from the end of the cylinder which accepts keys. This can
often be done quite quickly in the field. The lock is then reassembled and
returned to service. The lock will then be significantly more easy to
pick, it will look totally unmodified, and importantly will still work
with its intended key! What they have done is make the lock cease to care
about most of the wiggles on any key inserted into it. Unfortunately for 
the trespasser, doing this destroys the key coding so impressioning is 
subseqently impossible. 

To help ensure that the lock operators remain unaware of the modification,
the head of the small Allen bolt can be rounded out (round warding
files are good for this) and blacked with Artline texta, to avoid possible 
subsequent removal of the cylinder, unlilely as it is anyway.

If the lock has 5 pins with 10 possible positions, there exists 10^5 (one
hundred thousand) possible key cuttings for that lock, of which it will
accept only one. If the urban trespasser removes three pins, then the lock
has 10^2 possible keys encoded in any of 100,000 possible keys, and the
real key is included in that set, along with 99,900 others different to it
in positions 1,2,3 but alike in positions 4 and 5. So the ease of lock
picking has been increased by three orders of magnitude for picking, which
makes it a lot faster. Naturally for a 7 pin lock, they would remove 5
pins; for a 22-pin Kaba Quattro cylinder, leave the 4 pins closest to the
keyway, etc.

This technique also applies to a number of regular door cylinders, which
are now made using a machined-out brass plug instead of a solid one, so
pin removal requires less hacksawing once the back has been removed. In
both cases, padlock and door cylinder, the long term trespasser knows it
is important to blow the metal filings out of the lock before 
reinstallation, preferably onto a surface where they will not be noticed by
security staff.

The options below will tend to be used when the lock cannot be picked
quickly. From a trespasser's point of view, is preferable to preserve 
the lock if at all possible.


d) The trespasser will chop the shackle and take the lock with them.
This renders the lock unusable but preserves its key coding, which can
be useful for subsequent generation of keys usable in other keyed-alike
locks. It leaves the door unlocked and is obviously undesirable in the
 long-term.

The successful long term trespasser will purchase an identical
replacement in advance. In this way, the smashed lock can be cut open in
well-equipped surroundings, and its allen key exposed, so that the
original cylinder can be removed for emplacement the new lock, and the
broken lock discarded along with the cylinder from its replacement. 
Naturally the long-term trespasser would use this opportunity to make a key.

This tactic, while costly, is sometimes necessary, for example in those
situations where the lock is a really tough customer. The cost of trespass
goes up for the trespasser in these circumstances.


e) The trespasser might smash it off and leave it there, deliberately. 
This provides the opportunity to leave clues about how it was broken, 
the lock will exhibit bolt-cutter marks, twisting, cutting marks, etc, 
which can be used to persuade the security operator to install a different
kind of lock next time. In general, resistance to one kind of attack merely 
opens the lock to other kinds of attack.


f) The long-term trespasser will generally not smash whatever the lock is 
mounted upon (hasp/staple) leaving the lock there intact, since 
then box armour is then often installed around the lock, though since box 
armour itself can be a handy point of purchase for leverage devices, etc, this
itself can be a ploy.

g) Some long-term trespassers will remove the original lock and replace it
with their own lock, similarly broached, aged and embossed with various
letters appropriately in advance. Very confusing when you try to open it.
Costs you and them a lock.


h) render the lock unable to be opened by the keyholders. 

This tactic is quite common. The procedure changes the owner's time-delay 
from short to long. In general we can be expected to take such measures
 as renders this time short again.

The short end of a long crow bar moves very slowly, but very forcefully.
In much the same way as a long crow bar exerts physical leverage on the
lock, the long term trespasser should exert tactical leverage on the lock
owner.

Information theory dictates that there are many more ways for a lock to be
locked than there are for it to be opened. This will often be exploited.

Two dollars worth of epoxy resin, cyanoacrylic acid esters, or commercial
composites like Liquid Nails, in the lock cylinder can cost the lock owner
much more than two dollars in time, effort and money, to regain their
precious high-speed access. The pain factor for the lock owner increases
with their distance from the lock, and also with the expense of the lock
itself. Two dollars worth of super glue is much more psychologically
effective against a very expensive lock than against a less costly lock
even if the cheaper lock is the functional equal of the more expensive
one. It is, however, a general method. The lock will probably be replaced
with an equally problematic equivalent.

Ever wondered what people do with old keys? Another method
known to be used for permanent disablement of locks is to take a blank
appropriate to the brooch, cut a length (say 20mm) of the blade off square, and
insert that into the keyway, where it will become irremovably lodged in the
keyway. The lock owners will not be able to fully insert their key, but no glue
will be visible. When the lock is analysed, the locksmith will inform the owners
that since this attack is specific to a certain kind of lock brooch, that one
answer is to continue to use a different kind of lock.

If, to get a locksmith out to open the lock, and replace the broken one with
another one, it costs $300, they will get sick of doing it time after time. They
will eventually go for a different lock to the ones which keep being destroyed,
and these will be the ones which are amenable to Easy Pickings or key
manufacture - because the astute trespasser doesn't smash or jam these
types.

This dictates that the permanently-locked method should be employed
against those locks which are otherwise unable to be opened: the
un-pickable Abloys, Bi-Locks and Kaba type systems, which unfortunately cost
a lot of money.



i) The astute long-term trespasser will tandem-lock your locks with one of 
their own. It is surprising how often you see a gate held closed by something
like six locks in a linear chain. Naturally, adding one of their own 
(approriately aged, authoritatively embossed, etc) will generally not be noticed
but it is a serious security hole. It is noticable that some of
these locks are very expensive, and they sit in tandem with crappy locks
which are naturally the weakest link.


j) For one-off access, the trespasser will drill out the cylinder. Once the
pins are all removed from the gallery the cylinder will turn. This method is
a once-off method only, since it destroys the lock and destroys any chance 
of acquiring the information within it which would usefully render its 
keyed-alike associates vulnerable. It is used in those circumstances where 
there is no other access to the lock than the base (lock is boxed). From the 
tresspasser point of view, it is simpler to use (i) and get the owner to pay 
for the privelage of doing it for them a few times.



Think long-term.


Rapid ageing of locks 
--------------------- 

Purchase a lock and it looks new and shiny, which raises suspicions if put
on a site where the original lock was grotty and corroded. To accelerate
the ageing of a lock, any of the following methods works nicely - though
the cylinder and other orifices (shackle, etc) should be greased first -
it is silly to artificially age a lock so much that it doesn't work.

a) use nylon thread or fishing line to suspend the lock above a cup of
corrosive material, preferably HCl or similar fuming concentrated mineral
acids. Suspend the lock close to the surface of the liquid. Corrosive
vapours will rapidly make the lock look old.

b) fill a tin can with salty water. Connect one terminal of a battery
charger to the can with an alligator clip. Connect the other terminal of
the charger to the lock shackle. Immerse the lock in the salty solution
and energise the charger. Brass, in particular, looks pink after this
treatment, and this naked pink (copper) oxidises rapidly to "old lock"
appearance.

c) lock it to a chain wire fence and leave it there for a couple of years.
Since the wire fence will be galvanised there will be an electrochemical
couple formed when the chrome/brass-zinc junction (etc) gets wet by rain.
In general people will ignore locks locked to fences, assuming they're
left behind, forgotten by cyclists, etc.


3) no_trace.

Going to all the trouble of acquiring access, only to give it away, is silly.
Intact locks, coupled to graffiti, theft and vandalism are diagnostic of 
long-term access breaches.


4) key distribution

The right to possess and use a key acquired by means of cunning comes with
an understanding of the difficulty of acquiring it and the stupid waste of
effort involved if the owners of the key deduce that their lock is no
longer solely under their control. The long term trespasser will generally not
share his or her access with other trespassers.

This understanding is earned either by making a key or going to the effort
of aquiring it. It carries with it certain responsibilities, primary among
them is to preserve the secrecy of the fact that the key has been
acquired. The "owned" lock should never, for example, be left on the hasp
unlocked by the trespasser, which would lead to lock theft or the discovery 
by the security operators that the lock was not solely under their control.

The owner will tend to believe that they left it open last time instead of
accept the possibility that their key has been duplicated. It is often easier
to believe that a broken security system is secure, than it is to replace that
system.














Do not make it harder for yourself next time by leaving the premises configured
in such a way as justifies the employment of security guards.


Lock centrism
-------------

It is notable that some doors are intrinsically insecure though the lock is
really good. If a door's hinge pins are removable easily, it makes sense to
remove them in some circumstances. If the door jamb is weak, it might make better
sense to exploit the jamb instead of the lock, by deforming the jamb so that the
lock lacks anything into which to bite.












Deliberate Fault Condition.

This is the fine art of training people to ignore their instruments. If it can be
arranged so that a detector of interest is continually set off, people will
often ignore it rather than test it and fix it.



Null Detector.
---------------
"None are so blind as those who will not see."

Many IR/microwave detectors are commodity items, employing the same
components and functioning to the same signal and voltage specifications as the
ones in the target location. There is nothing to stop you from buying one
commercially and examining it, and often you can get a good look at it during,
say, business hours, at the premises of interest, and buy one just like it from
a catalogue of similar products.

The alarm circuitry cannot tell anything about the specific sensor other than
its state. It doesn't know if what it is talking to has been swapped out and a
disarmed duplicate swapped in, as many of the old sensors lack anything like a
serial number or other unique means of identification.

As such, an alarm system can be fooled into thinking it is in communication with
the same detector it always was, when in fact is is in communication with ...
uh, the same detector it always was - an identical unit located in a different
position, configured to give a normal "all's quiet" signal.

The wires are often not armoured nor located anywhere especially secure, nor
under surveillance (eg: a roof cavity) and are thus amenable to tampering. The
voltage rails are typically ground and 5-12 volts DC. There will be signal wires
carrying one of two states, normally open or normally closed. If one can
determine which wires are used (the colours are often, but not always,
standard), one can splice, in parallel to the existing sensor, a never-activated
sensor of one's own appropriately wrapped in alfoil, etc, then chop out the
original sensor's connections wire by wire. In such cases it is often clever to
leave the original sensor powered up, so its indicator light continues to blink
reassuringly to the owner, even though it sends no signal to the alarm control
box.







Learning from failures.

Tarban Creek Bridge
Mooney Mooney Bridge
Gladstone Park Reservoir
Meadowbank Rail Bridge
Your Taxes
Belconnen Way



