File : UPS.txt
Cont: repair of a broken Total Power Systems LUS600

<Warning: contains low level hardware drool, circuit and logic and
switching theory, the clueless opinions of a ranting maniac, etc>

CAT's Uninterruptable Power Supply (UPS) was found on the roadside in 1999
by Joey of Ten-Twelve. I tested it with a couple of monitors for a couple
of weeks, then put it into service at Lord St, and has now done us good
service for nearly two years, until it was zapped to death last month at
TWS during a power surge (which also took out the power supply in the
Ungermann-Bass 16 port UTP hub, which I later fixed). CAT is faced with
the requirement for a replacement, so the servers (conway, pink, chef) and
the firewall/router (treehug) can stay functional in the event of a mains
outage.


Politics, long-term cost of maintenance, learnability, fixability issues
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
I am in favour of repairing the existing unit for several reasons, and
although cost is one of them, there are others. 

First, buying a new one costs CAT money and uses new resources, though it
might come under some sort of beneficial warrantee (also preventing us
from looking inside it.)

Second, buying a new UPS will not provide us with a relatively simple
device which we can learn about and fix for ourselves - they never come
with a schematic diagram since nasty corporations don't want to reveal
their design secrets to their competitors, and modern UPS's are, in my
opinion, way too fucking complex for what they need to do. Second System
Effect has led to these devices becoming encrusted with features which
don't significantly improve the device's ability to do what you really
need it to do, but which do significantly improve the number of ways for
the device to break down or behave unpredictably (No, your UPS does NOT
need an IP address or the ability to have viruses executed on it).

Third, modern UPS's are made of components which can be impossible to
visually identify (SMD capacitors fall into this category), or get in
small quantities (when you buy SMD's - surface mount devices - you get
them by the hundred) - or impossible to actually install in lieu of the
broken original because they're so incredibly tiny a human can't solder it
without considerable difficulty.  And, new UPSs have firmware onboard to
run their complex diagnostic logic, and this firmware is proprietary -
there is no way in hell the company will burn an EPROM with the (probably
old) version of system code on these things, just so you can replace a
cooked 27C512 in your current item. Or they have 4-layer PCBs which, when
they break, are a nightmare to try and diagnose or fix.

By comparison with modern UPSs, such as the presently thought to be
brain-damaged APC-600 system provided by Steen, the LUS-600 is something
of a dinosaur. However, this is in part why I am in favour of keeping the
LUS-600 alive. It's not too bright, and does what you tell it, instead of
getting all uppity about the phase of the moon or whatever other thing it
feels isn't quite right. It uses a standard double-sided, plated
through-hole, two layer printed circuit board so you can see what connects
to what else, directly. This is packed with discrete, directly
identifiable, hold-one-in-your-fingers type components (no custom vLSI or
epoxy-potted modules) including some standard, plainly ennumerated, DIL-14
low-power Schottky logic chips, a couple of transformers, a couple of
LM317 regulators and two paralleled sets of field-effect transistors
(FETs) thermally coupled to a big, black anodised heatsink. The resistors,
transistors, capacitors, and other thingies are directly observable and
testable. It is my suspicion that this device was assembled by hand, which
is good - we can repair it by hand for the same reason.


Observations about the function of the UPS
-----------------------------------------------------------
John August and I spent some time looking inside this thing and now have a
somewhat better idea how it is supposed to work, and have some ideas about
why it might not be working.

Normally a UPS is plugged into the mains, and it routes mains through
itself to whatever dependant device was plugged into it. At the same time
it sits there charging up the batteries, both to prolong their service
life (flat batteries chemically degrade and become unusable) and also to
provide an emergency power source from which the inverter can be fed
later. It also sits there monitoring the presence or absence of mains
power.

In the event that there is no mains power coming in, the device rapidly
switches into a state where the batteries feed a circuit called an
inverter, which is basically a big semiconductor switching circuit
changing the routing of current 50 times a second. It takes say, a maximum
of 50 amps at 12V (50 amps x 12 Volts is 600 watts...!) from the (rather
gutsy) battery, and feeds it to a big, chunky transformer, through the
power-FETs to which an oscillator which is coupled to turn them on and off
at directly opposite times, swapping the polarity of this DC feed, every
0.02 seconds approximately. That's why it's called a switching inverter.
The transformer thinks someone's on the end of its input terminals,
swapping the battery terminal polarity over every two hundredths of a
second.

(Hey... could you overclock your computer by feeding it from a UPS running
at more than 50Hz? No. Your motherboard gets DC from the computer's power
supply, not AC).

A transformer basically consists of two coils of wire which aren't
connected electrically, but which are connected magnetically... if you
energise either of them the other will be sitting in the resulting
magnetic field, so that a change in the current passing through one coil
will induce a change in the current passing through the other. If you feed
direct current to a transformer it'll just heat up, which is why the
inverter circuit needs to change 50 times a second. You could change it at
faster rates but 50Hz is the speed the mains changes, so the system was
designed to operate at that rate.

The main output of this big chunky transformer has a 20:1 turns ratio. The
turns ratio (which is the thing whch determines what voltages come in and
what comes out as a result) is that for every 1 loop of wire on the
incoming side, there are 20 loops of wire on the outgoing side. The
transformer is *big* ... serious wires come in carrying 50 amps or so
under normal load. On the other side of the transformer, on the other
coil, the changing magnetic field induces 240Volts AC to appear, and the
field is strong enough to force a load of about 2.5 amps under normal load
(that is, running three computers each needing 200 watts, that is, 600
watts in total).

Mains voltage changes as a beautiful 50Hz sine wave over time. In theory
the output of this system is a square wave, but because of lag induced
from the switching of the FETs, and also the lag induced in the
transformer (it takes a few ms to build up a magnetic field in space and
in the iron laminate around which the coils are wound, then to dump back
into the coils that energy stored in space and the iron laminate in the
first place) so you get this sorta lumpy thing with a fundamental
frequency of 50Hz... called a "modified" square wave.


Functional circuit logic
-------------------------------------------------
The way these FETs are tickled in order to turn them off and on at the
required rate is like so. A FET has three wires coming out of it, a source
where current comes in, a drain where current goes out and a gate which
determines if this flow between source and drain can happen or not (it's
the switch). The FET's gate pins are fed by the output of a chip called a
4047 (this is the type number printed on the chip). JA and I went to
chipdir.org, and got the schematics for them since we need to know what
chunk o' wire coming out of the 4047 is actually the oscillator pin
(there's 14 to choose from) and what are the conditions under which it is
energised. It turns out this item's speed of oscillation is determined by
the time constant intrinsic to an external RC circuit, which is nearby on
the printed circuit board. We think the thing's base time constant is
100Hz and this is chopped up somehow, but I can't remember how exactly.
Anyway, on the 4047 chip there exist two pins, Q and ~Q, and if one is off
(low voltage) , the other will be on (high voltage), even when they
swap. It turns out these are routed, via some drive transistors, to the
gate pins of the FET. So whenever one FET is on, the other is off. Makes
good sense!

Also, configured in this way, each FET is only turned on for a total of
half a second for each second of elapsed real time... this is what's
called a 50% duty cycle. Which has the consequence that you can flog the
FET a bit harder for a brief interval than you could continuously without
expecting the device to break from heat stress, dopant migration, arcing,
emission of magic smoke, or whatever other failure mode FETs have.

However, the oscillator never switches on if certain conditions are
met. These are: overload, low battery, mains on: if any of these states
are true, the UPS will switch its inverter stage off. Respectively, this
is to prevent the FETs routing so much current that they cook themselves;
to prevent the batteries being run so flat that they can't be charged up
again; or because there's mains available so there's no need to run the
inverter anyway.

These states are all monitored by another chip, which is a 4073, a triple 
three input AND gate. 

Logically, any AND gate needs all its inputs to be 1 (high) for it to give
an output of 1. If anything fed to an AND is 0 then it doesnt matter what
else you feed it or how many inputs it has, you'll get a 0 out.

The oscillator gets to turn on only when the outputs from these and gates
are turned on. So, in a Boolean logic sense it's set up like this:
                                         ____
                  batteries not flat--1-| AND \ 
 total inverter output not excessive--1-|4073  )---1--- oscillator goes ON 
                 mains not available--1-|_____/

Given all this NOT stuff I'd be looking for some inverter (logical NOT)  
logic chips somewhere, but you can see how this would work. If the battery
was flat, the top input would be 0 so the 4073 output would be 0 and the
oscillator would stay off. If the inverter output was too high, then the
middle input would be 0 so the oscillator would turn off. If there was
mains, the bottom input would be configured to 0 so the oscillator would
be turned off.

John plugged it in, turned it on, slapped the probes onto the appropriate
gates and had a think, it beeped annoyingly, and then I pointed out that

1) The inverter isn't inverting when there's no mains.
2) When there *is* mains, the batteries aren't charging (why?).

so at this point we weren't in a position to see if the inverter was
behaving properly - maybe the batteries are flat and that's holding the
4037 output down and keeping the osc off.

However, there's some suspicions concerning the state of a transformer on
the PCB, which is adjacent to the 3A fuse which blew last month.

So we put the cowl back on and JA took it home where he has better
equipment with which to interrogate the device and can charge the
batteries in the meantime. There's lots of other logic to drive the
Blinkenlights display on the front of the UPS, but we have, for the
moment, ignored much of this.

I gotta say, thanks JA for the guided tour of the UPS, and thanks in
advance for any further investigations, fixups, or other related stuff.


<predator>
