File: wireless.minutes.txt
Content: minutes of sydneywireless.com
Date 7 August 2002
Who: Jamie Duane Craig Anthony Tom Sean Steve Paul Col Philip 
Hint: Do not look into laser with remaining eye.


Agenda (from dead-tree version plus verbal stuff)
Report on Tunneling issues from David didn't happen.
Philip to report on bitmasking of IP segments
***Full paper report of plan of attack of routing implementation
DNS: naming convention
     registry (through NodeDB) for controll of names between 
      currently not-connected clusers.
     reverse DNS setup

IP stuff: 
      Central registry: 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Phil has't quite finished his work. He's a third finished. He reckons his
writing is bad. The blurb::

Routing: IGP and EGP.
IGP is used  inside autonomous systems (net boundaries controlled by
single administrative bodies.) It's RIP, ISIS, these protocols.
Available ones: open standards (compatability advantages, etc). The open
IGP uses static routing, Rip1 and Rip2, OSPF, ISIS. Options are limited by
what platforms support them. Soo... we implement protocols based on what
we actually want the IGP to do. How many routers we have, how many
alternative routes between them etc etc.

Suggestions are as follows:
Distance vector protocols or link-state protocols.
Link state protocol (routing tables propagated from one router to all in a
branched manner)

Distance vector (hop-by-hop, routing tables shared, and updated every 90
seconds, RIP used here, IGRP)

Internal routing protocols were built for campuses, not wirelessly
implemented networks which have different assumptions about uptime,
ownership, etc etc. The protocol needs to not limit us when the network
gets bigger.

Our Assumptions: 
a) individual wireless links are not reliable (unlicensed spectrum
   interference, etc).
b) redundant links will be formed. How: that is determined by hardware
   and geography.
c) high speed backbone core not feasable. Access to fibre might make it
   feasable. Disparate backbone is unlikely. It assumes no fibre stuff.

Requirements: physical/geographical positioning determines topology.

Links might flap on a per-second rate. The system needs to take this
possibility into account. Eg: disconnection of flapping users becomes
policy to prevent routing screwups. Eg2: above.net ran OSPF (link state)
and a dodgy NIC brought the network down (filled it up with CPU-greedy 
routing updates so nothing worked). Eg: AS007 internet ripple effect.

Network must be immune to backbone splits: do we want network
survivability built in, so isolated segments still work when not connected
to each other. In the inital rollout the network won't be contiguous
anyway.

Link State Protocols: instant routing updates broadcast everywhere. Works
on best-path, quite efficient. Also: All routers have a view of the entire
network, therefore the routers constitute a full mesh network. It'll
load-balance automatically. Harder to set up than distance vector and
hates backbone separation. Policy will mandate the protocol stuff.
Link-state advertisements can flood the networks, one flapping link can
make all the routers work really hard. Certain topologies (with reliable
backbones will) make this work. "Link down" state is : router turned off,
"hello" heartbeat packets absent, routing entry withdrawn from network.
SPF automatically recalculates the whole routing table in such a case.

Distance vector: incremental updates: sends "this is my current routing
protocol". Default incremental update time is configurable. Convergence is
a problem, since, there's lag between routers updating (say, 30-180
seconds) however, flapping is not a problem any more. Dijkstra's (who died
today, Aug8) algorithm in CPU intense but RIP is not. RIP disables
learning stupid loop routings, route poisoning, etc. Not all routers have
a consistent view of the network. Hop-count limitation is 15 hops (4-bit
counter limit) between routers. RIP is widely supported though it might
not be optimal. OSPF might suit some circumstances better. IGRP is
proprietary to Cisco. Rip1 is class full so cant use it.

ISIS not available for wireless network (implemented commercially: isisd
doesn't work). OSPF is free software so we can use that. RIP worked in
Coffs Harbour, has worked over 30 routers when hammered and when BGP
routes were injected into it. RIP also has authentication. Probably we'll
end up using two protocols on the actual network (and some static route
stuff anyway).

IGRP is hybrid.

OSPF vs RIP.
Backbone not fully meshed, unreliable links, spaghetti design.
Some congestion will happen but routing can't stop that (QoS issue).

::Administrative control::
Needs to support insertion of user-controlled networks.
No control of how users get to it. Should set guidelines.
Social consequences should be dealt with.
Also: need telco act compliance. Exemptions: Immediate circle (club
membership) IGP networks defined within administrative bodies.
BGP makes this able to be implemented.

Single AS's. 

BGP: Open standard: scalable: Reliable/secure: dampening/flap control
   : well tested (BSD, solaris) ZebOS available : good implementations
     (cisco, Juniper) : Modulation changes, firmware recoder?
   :TCP is the session protocol, so minor packet lossage is not a drama
    and route dampening fixes this to some extent.

----------
Evilbunny:DNS
Recommendation: dont use privately owned domains
Will be multiple nameservers.
Publically addressible DNS entries will be addressible if we link to the
existing internet net.
Need a name that is valid on the wireless network and also the real internet. 

Several tricky issues about multihomed machines which pay attention to
several name servers... proxies, resolution, etc. Maybe host file
distribution will work in the interim before DNS is implemented. Craig
claims has made a lot of this stuff work. Messing with BIND might not be a
good idea 8-)

Suggestions:
.asn is $80 per year.
.state.awa
.asn 
.cwe 


awa.asn.au        is taken
wireless.asn.au
sw-awa.asn

? 2ghz.asn.au
? air.asn.au

Kicked this around for a while, and decided on 

officially: 
CW.net.au was registered
also wtf.net.au (wireless technical forum) uhhh... what the pluck?

IP registry
------------
Central registry + whois server on subnet allocations.
(I have no idea who came up with this or why, or wether it works or not)

Business Plan
-------------
Still iterating and evolving, and taken too bloody long. 
Need to actually get some people to sit down and thrash this out. 
Segment task into smaller bits, work on them, get back together.
Need to generate an info pack, and also a specification.
Business plans and info pack templates are available online.
Sat 17th, 3pm, drinks at 8pm. Location: Tom's boardroom, Macquarie Bank

1st wednesday next month. 4 september.

<predator>
