File: worldtrade.txt
Cont: some commentries on the recent destruction of the World Trade
      Centre towers in New York, and the attack on the Pentagon, etc.

I picked up a newspaper today, I generally never buy them. It showed a
picture alluded to in a book by Stephen King, upon which the movie "The
Running Man" was based. The book mentioned, in the final page, that the
protagonist hijackked and piloted a commercial passenger jet, and its
several hundred tonne load of fuel, into the side of the major media
building in the city in which he was destined to be executed. The book was
in the fiction section.

I never thought it would happen in the world in which I lived, back then,
when I read the book. I'd never read Chomsky, never found out the horrific
atrocities committed by the US against the citizenry of the world, its own
nation, and even its future. I've read Chomsky now. Lots. I know the true
nature of the global society in which we live. What I observe matches much
more closely to what Chomsky writes than to what I see on the commercial
news. Chomsky has had difficulty being published in the US. 

One plane per building. Very, very specific buildings. In the US. One of
the buildings has been truck-bombed before. The footage was not
significantly different to the footage I saw of guided missiles navigating
down the lift shafts of buildings in Iraq ten years ago except these
buildings were in the inviolable US, and the missles were commercial
transport vehicles.

Ever wonder why this doesn't happen anywhere in say, Luxemborg, or
Denmark?

It had to happen eventually, but not for the reasons you're going to hear
on CNN. The American saturation programme-bombing of every Australian
media channel is partly diagnostic of the problem. You will not hear any
intelligent comment at all from these sources. Flash footage. American
talking heads nodding sagely, nodding correctly.

Cut to the Prez. Dubya prattles on. "We will bring these folks to
justice." As if it mattered.

However, it *doesn't* actually matter who actually organised this
astounding feat of destruction, nor does it matter that person X or Y will
be "brought to justice", whatever that means. If all the relevant people
are dead, mashed into the side of the skyscraper, they'll find someone
else and paint them up appropriately prior wiring them into the national
grid. Or they'll bomb some nation into the ground. Revenge will be served,
but not justice.

What does matter is that Americans need to honestly listen when they
eventually find out why the perpetrators did it, and that is what will not
ever be addressed or analysed in the corporate media, because they are not
geared to the dissemination of the truth. They fabricate a delusion which
enables American society to function, or malfunction, the way it does.
They divorce the bulk of the American populace from the reality of what
their nation is and what it does to the rest of the world. They are
divorcing it even now, as I speak. 

I watched the footage and mum was sitting beside me. I was astounded.
Finally, finally someone has had the temerity and the audacity to stand up
to the great fascist corpor-nation, America Inc. I remember the footage
from the WTC bombing years ago. Just as terrible. The decision-makers
didn't get it, back then; They're paying for it now.... the universe will
always provide another opportunity to learn the lesson again. This is the
next opportunity. Hopefully they will learn this time around.

The talking heads, all American, were flogging their inane-platitude
manufacturing machinery as hard as possible. 

The worst thing was, of course, that they'd lied to my poor old
mum. Terrorists (read: random, unmotivated, unAmerican persons) did this.

I asked her, as she sucked her corporate cigarette, if she was having
difficulty understanding why anyone would do this. She said she was. 

I got up and went to my bookshelf and removed about a metre's worth of
books. Noam Chomsky wrote all of them. 

I said to her that this is exactly what you'd expect, given the
geopolitical behaviour of the USA in the last century. 

"But what about all those innocent people!" she wailed at me as if I had
not understood that these people did not deserve to be crushed,
incinerated or sucked into a turbojet engine right in the comfort of their
air-conditioned offices, which I understand perfectly fucking well, thank
you.

"NO-ONE is innocent, mum!" I nearly yelled, to get it through her skull.
"WE BUY the products, we vote in the rulers, we invest in the companies,
we support a broken undemocratic system which enriches the few, deprives
and deracinates and disenfranchises millions! These supposedly innocent
dudes sit in their offices, drink slave-labour plantation coffee, use
closed-source software and decide which country will get to starve this
year, which lands will be chemically poisoned for a few centuries, which
organism will be genetically engineered to become extinct, which forest
will be turned into photocopier fodder."

"I am entitled to my opinion!" she says.

"You are NOT entitled to your ignorance." I placed the books on the floor. 
"Stop watching television. Read the books. Finally, get a clue about the
 true nature of your world."

She is insulted. She says she hasn't got time to read, which is crap. She
does it every night. She doesn't want to know. Reality is too painful.

The smoke seeps out of her cigarette. The jet plows into the side of the
building for the third time this minute, in case the first time wasn't
shocking enough. Station identification advertising splatters the screen.
CNN. Corporate Network News? Chunks of glass and cement and office staff
are spat out the other side of the building in a fireball of igniting
Avgas. What a fucking hideous tragedy.

Cut to the Prez. I observe that cretinous, ex oil company executive, who
didn't even get elected to the Presidency properly, he is there in his
office saying America will not bend, will not be persuaded.... thereby
condemning hundreds more of his citizenry to bear the future attacks which
will inevitably come in the wake of this one if America does NOT bend.

America, were it sane, might consider that it might change certain aspects
of its foreign policy; but it is not. So it won't. So somebody will smack
them again, until they learn. It is inevitable, if they do not learn. It
might be another Tim McVeigh truck bomb blowing the front of a building
through the bodies of a few hundred office workers, it might be a
bioweapon aerosolised and fed into the air conditioning intakes at a large
US domestic airport. 

What's to stop this occurring again? They might decide, let's not hit
the government or corporate skyscrapers, let's hit the chemical tank
farms, the semiconductor manufactories, the automobile plants, the
steelmills, the enrichment facilities, the nuclear power stations, the
hydroelectric dams, whatever. Let's hit the fucking White House. Or the
Congress. Or ... well, GeorgeDubya, you can't cover the whole fucking
continent with Patriot missles, can you? There's an awful lot of planes
out there. Might be simpler to stop the trade embargoes, the slavery, the
sanctions, the millitary occupations.

He calls these attackers terrorists. He is right, and he recognises them
as such from his position as one of the top terrorists in the world today.
Corporate criminality and ecosystemic terrorism is the American way of
life. He gets into power and first thing he does is declare war on the
ecosystem.

If you look carefully, or even casually, at the statistics, a few thousand
dead office workers is a nothing, a blip, compared to the millions of
people killed by American foreign policy, invasions, and political
interference in the last fifty years.

The future of America remains, nevertheless, in the hands of its people,
who are being lied to as we speak, and the price they will pay for
swallowing these lies is fairly predictable. It's time they learnt the
truth, seeked it out, took control of their society again; Otherwise,
needlessly destructive and painful events like this will force the painful
truth even further into them. Reclaiming their nation from the giant
corporations is the only way for them to cease being a prison and a proxy
jailer, and reclaim the right to call itself a free nation.



<predator>


