From pyam@stanford.edu Mon May 10 13:02:56 2004
Date: Sat, 08 May 2004 17:33:32 -0700
From: Patricia Yam <pyam@stanford.edu>
To: predator@cat.org.au
Subject: time flies when your having fun


    [ Part 1, Text/PLAIN  213 lines. ]
    [ Unable to print this part. ]

Hi Mike,

Gosh, somehow this writing a paper thing managed to take up months??? of
my life - I haven't written to you in ages. Sometimes science just takes
over. Okay, and I suppose my dislike of letting people read rough drafts
of my work doesn't help.

I think I was in a pretty whinge-y mood during my last email rant.
Re-reading parts of it, I was like, wow, full of self-pity or something.
Today, I'm definitely more upbeat - is it because I may be finally
recovering from this cold that has plagued me for the last week, or
because all that cold medication is given me a high? Or rather because I
don;t have to deal with my paper for another few days until the readers
come back with comments. In any case, there's a lot of disconnected
rambling to follow.

I don't think I'm expressing myself very eloquently (or even accurately),
and this may be a big generalisation, but people who have a physics or
engineering background and move into biology tend to enter the field with
a desire to want to control everything. By that, I mean they want to be
able to control all parameters and make biological outcomes more
"uniform", or like switches and circuits. But I think that biology is
inherently messy. Or rather, biological systems are a result of
interactions of countless numbers of players. For example, when you are
looking at cells, populations of them can show trends, but each
individual also behaves uniquely. In a way, biology is full of
populations that can be described with statistics. Where am I going with
this? It's like with Bill and the carcinoma, you know the population
level stats, but each individual is individual. And here I am, having
just learned that Bill is making a move, and thinking, yep, biology is
messy and "unpredictable". Or rather, even though we know that certain
things are likely to happen, we only have limited certainty in defining
when they will happen.
 
      > We decided to upgrade the software because we wanted to be
      able to control
      > our automated stage better, and write more advanced macros.
      As expected,
      > the new software has its own set of bugs (different to the
      previous version
      > of the software). That's not surprising, research
      microscopy software is a
      > small market, the companies are not that big, so there are
      only a small
      > number of engineers and programmers involved in writing the
      software.

      But what is worse is, they don't give you the source code so
      you can't fix
      the bugs or hire someone to fix the bugs.


And the support people make it really hard for us to get into contact
with the engineers. I understand that the engineers' time is valuable,
but sometimes you spend an hour on the phone with technical support, and
when they (or you) get in touch with an engineer, the problem is solved
in 10 min :)

      Then this was an upgrade only in the marketting sense (may
      the
      microscope coy's more money) not in the technical sense.
      Reinstall the old
      software, I reckon, and tell 'em to get phuct.


Well, another point release down the line, and things are overall better,
though it took a lot of brains on our part I think, to incorporate the
best of the old and new stuff.

      > People in lab make fun of me (in a nice way) about how I'm
      always
      > eating, but honestly, I just cant concentrate when I am
      hungry!

      Fair enuf... if you're a stick like me and dont have a lot of
      fuel
      reserve, it makes sense to have a brain which allocates task
      priority to
      feeding before thinking about other stuff!


Hmmmm..........maybe that's why I get irritable when I'm hungry. Julie
(my supervisor) once hypothesised that the reason I was so skinny was
that I kept bruning my fat all the time (I think like what some animals
do with brown fat when they hibernate?). Therefore, she thought I might
have warm hands because I was always generating heat. But actually, my
hands and feet get cold quickly, so there goes that hypothesis.

      > Other than their narrow emission wavelengths, the other
      super-cool thing
      > about QDs is that they have a much higher quantum
      efficiency (probability
      > that photon absorbed gives photon emitted) that normal
      organic dyes, and
      > bleach way way less (in fact, in our system, we dont see
      bleaching at all).

      Bleach in the sense of their emission spectrum spreads out
      and becomes
      like, uh, white?


Bleach as in (as the chemist, you can probably correct me here), that the
electrons get into a triplet state or some other dark state where they
hang out and can't radiate down to lower energy levels and emit photons.

      Honestly? Well, more Tak-Wah, less biochem (don't get me
      wrong,
      biochem blows my head off and I think it's fascinating, but
      it's
      available anytime, in textbooks and such).


More me huh? I don't consider myself that interesting! I went out on a
date the other night, and I worried that I would bore the guy to
death.....maybe my social skills are atrophying. Well I can assume I
didn't bore him that much since I have been asked out again, which I am
happy to agree to  :). It's the first time I've gone out with someone
younger (2-3 years) than me. Not sure what to think about that, if
anything. At least if there's any truth about men reaching their sexual
peak in their late teens, then he is less far away from his peak  :P

My life these days is so entwined with family, science and PhD stuff, and
I'm just pretty content with life the way things are right now. Okay,
with one exception. I wish I did outdoor things more (part of this is me
just deciding to put aside time to do so).

      And, cognizant that I was
      somewhat smitten with you in about '98 but I don't think I
      ever said
      anything about that since you were in the loop with another
      guy at the
      time. So there 8-)


Hm. Well the reason for my slow reply to this email is not because you
wrote that you were smitten with me in 98. I just got busy! But you know
what's funny, I was surprised to learn this, but NOT really genuinely
truely deeply inside shocked. Maybe part of me unconsciously knew this?
Was I in the loop with another guy at the time? I had a long distance
thing going on with a guy in the US, which ended sometime the following
year. Long distance is difficult, and I don't know I would ever do it
again. People who can maintain long distance relationships are (in my
mind) incredibly strong or incredibly stupid.

You know there are some guys that secrete a certain something (some
animal attraction thing) that makes women want to be close to them (or
feel some "chemistry" I suppose). And of course it doenst work on all
women. My (most-recent) ex-boyfriend has this. (we remain friends and on
good terms). I was totally under the influence for the longest time, even
after we broke up. But then one day I realised that he was exuding this
"thing" and that's why I couldn't quite shake the influence. And once I
realised this, I was no longer under the influence! And now I can be
amused at how other women get trapped under his influence.

So, I remember once when I felt a "something" also oozing from you, but a
different flavour to what I'm describing above. It was during the ride
back on the motocycle you gave me to my parents place. Or maybe it was
just the leather jacket ;P

A few weeks ago, I went to this talk given by Robert Sapolsky called
"sushi and the middle ages". And it was about how as we get older, we are
less likely to try novel things and we become less creative. And part of
it is due to our social structure/society, but even rats show the same
trend. With rats, you can get them to eat new types of food until they
hit a certain age, and then they will only eat food they have eaten
before. And similar trends are seen with people in terms of whether or
not we eat sushi, have belly button rings, or listen to new types of
music. The chance that we'll do any of this decreases with age. But even
how open we are to new ideas. Like no-one older than Darwin ever became a
darwinist - he could only convert younger scientists. And during the
discussion afterwards, people were saying how when you get older, you
want to do things that you definitely know you enjoy. And this may be
related to you knowing that you have fewer years to live. But this risk
aversion/aversion to new things, also occurs in people with terminal
illnesses who know they have a shorter amount of time to live. Of course,
there are many exceptions to this trend. But going to the talk did make
me feel like I was getting old, because sometimes, I would rather stay in
than go out, hang out with my friends than meet new people, do something
old rather than something new. I am just too comfortable I think.

Last year, I thought about getting a belly button ring, but in the end, I
wasn't sure if I was doing it just to DO something different (and whether
it was the equivalent of the post-breakup getting a new hairstyle thing)
and because my freinds put the idea in my head, and then there was the
fact that it also limits the type of physical activity you can do in the
first few months. Hmm.....though I still like the idea of getting one
(while my belly is still attractive enough to wear one). I'm just not so
excited about the higher level of maintenance of belly button rings
(compared to say, ear-rings).

      There's this advert pasted up in bus shelters and on
      billboards all over
      Sydney at the mo. It's got this pair of female lips pointed
      at a telephone
      handpiece, and in large letters down the bottom of the
      adverts it sez

      "There's a new treatment for cancer. Talking."

      I know this is bollocks simply because I talk so much that if
      it was true
      I'd never get cancer in the first place. 8-)


Okay, I have two responses to this. First with regards to the ad - huh???
What is the advertisement trying to sell??? I am so dumb that I dont'
"get" the ad?

Second, I would love a picture of you in front of the billboard!

      > In brief, I skiied for the first time, which is
      super-addictive and fun!
      > (though an expensive habit).

      and a smidge hard on the knees, i think. Thud, splat. And
      cold. n'stuff.


So, I had tried skiing once before, and did not particularly like it.
I've gone up to the mountains quite a few times (like 4-5) since I've
moved here, but I have a tendency to get altitute sickness. The first
time I went up, when I woke up in the morning, I promptly got nauseus and
fainted. When I tried skiing the first time, not only was I sick, but it
was cold and icy, and I just wasn;t with it. When you learn a new sport,
the amount of MENTAL concentration I have to use to make sure my body
remains mostly balanced, in control, and coordinated is pretty intensive.
But it could also be because I'm not a sporty person - I have issues with
roller skating, roller blading, ice skating etc where you are moving but
not "moving" your legs.

Now I am much better at handling the altitutide (vitamin/iron tablets,
salty foods, and gatorade). So when i went recently, not only was my
altitutude sickness under control, but it was fairly warm (people were
skiing in T-shirts, I just had a long-sleeved shirt on). So the weather
was much milder. I had a really good instructor. He made us do weird
stuff like jump up and down with one ski on, and ski on one foot and
stuff, but in the end, it helped with balance and I found my skiing feet!
So it was a lot of fun. But hard work. People who do it really well make
it look easy, but the amoutn of leg muscles you use to control your skiis
is a lot - I constantly have to make sure that my legs are not being
lazy!

Right-o. Hope that made some sense. Still being good?

P


________________________________________________________________________________

